1 
 Fantasy Flight Games Master Event Document  
Last Updated 3/14/2025 
Version 1.2 
Notable changes from the previous version are marked in blue. 
 
Fantasy Flight Games Organized Play (FFG OP) takes many forms  across multiple games. This 
document serves as a foundation that other, game -specific event regulations can build upon . It 
also serves as a rules compendium that applies to all official FFG OP events.  
 
This document is divided into two parts : Event Guidelines  and Floor Rules . 
 
In Part 1:  Event Guidelines , readers will find fundamental information  about how FFG OP 
events are run , as well as definitions for  several terms that are referenced across all FFG OP 
documentation. All organizers of official FFG OP events are expected to be familiar with 
this section . Participants in these events are also encouraged to read this section to better 
understand the “ins and outs” of Organized Play. The Event Guidelines section begins on page 4. 
 
In Part 2:  Floor Rules , readers will find  the code of conduct, behavioral expectations, and 
penalty guidelines of FFG OP events. All staff members, participants, and attendees of FFG 
OP events are required to adhere to the rules described in this section.  Failure to do so can 
result in the revocation of FFG OP privileges from an organizer or player. The Floor Rules 
section begins on page 15. 
 
At the end of this document are two Appendices . These exist to serve as quick -reference guides 
for use throughout an event ; they are not substitutions for the more detailed information found 
throughout this document.  
 
Disclaimer : This Master Event Document is not intended to address all local laws and 
regulations and is intended as a guide and best practices for Organized Play events with 
mandatory Floor Rules for FFG OP events, that still allow for some discretion. Each Event 
Organizer should be familiar with local laws and regulations and should adjust accordingly in 
order to be in compliance with them if there is a confli ct with this document. FFG disclaims any 
responsibility for such compliance.  
 
FFG reserves the right to update this document at any time.  
 
  2 
 Table of Contents  
 
Part 1: Event Guidelines  
1. General Event Concepts  
1. Event Outline  
2. Official, Unofficial, and Unsanctioned Events  
3. Event Tiers  
A. Casual Tier  
B. Competitive Tier  
4. Event Types  
A. Weekly Play  
B. Tournament  
5. Prize Distribution  
2. Event Participant Roles  
1. Eligible Participants  
2. Leader Roles  
A. Event Organizer  
B. Head Judge  
C. Floor Judge  
D. Scorekeeper  
E. Additional Event Staff  
3. Players  
4. Spectators  
A. On-Site Spectators  
B. Digital Spectators  
C. Influencers and Media  
5. Performing Multiple Roles  
3. Tournaments  
1. Tournament Structure  
2. Tournament Round Mechanics  
A. Swiss Rounds  
B. Elimination Rounds  
C. Progression Cut  
D. Bye 
Part 2: Floor Rules  
1. Philosophy and General Guidelines  
1. The Role of a Judge  
2. Penalty Definitions  
A. Point Penalties  
B. Game Loss and Match Loss  
C. Disqualification  
2. Gameplay Disruptions  
1. What Defines a Gameplay Disruption  3 
 2. Missed Mandatory Abilities  
3. Missed Game Steps  
4. Inaccurate Gameplay  
5. Repeated Gameplay Disruptions  
3. Event Disruptions  
1. What Defines an Event Disruption  
2. Tardiness and Absences  
3. Errors with Deck Lists  
4. Marked Cards  
5. Card Manipulation Errors  
6. Slow Play  
7. Hygiene  
8. Unsporting Conduct  
A. Basic Expectations  
B. Minor Unsporting Conduct: Inappropriate Behavior  
C. Major Unsporting Conduct: Harassment  
D. Aggressive Behavior  
E. Bribery and Collusion  
F. Stalling  
G. Vandalism and Theft  
H. Cheating  
4. Time Extensions  
Appendix: Warning Guidelines  
 4 
 Part 1: E vent Guidelines  
 
1. General Event Concepts  
The following are commonly used  terms  and concepts  when engaging with Fantasy Flight 
Games Organized Play events:  
 
1.1 Event Outline  
FFG OP designs events and products to create a memorable experience for the intended player 
community. An Event Outline provides the guidance necessary to run an event that delivers that 
experience. All official FFG OP events have an Event Outline provided as part of  their associated 
Organized Play kits. Some FFG OP products have more than one Event Outline, offering Event 
Organizers the choice of which to use.  
 
Each Event Outline include s the following information : 
• Instructions for the distribution of the FFG prize product  
• The tier of the event (Casual or Competitive)  
• The event’s tournament structure (if it uses one)  
• Requirements for staff roles to be fulfilled  
• Description of the utilized variant rules (if applicable)  
 
1.2 Official , Unofficial , and Unsanctioned  Events  
Official  events are those which have an Event Outline  (see above)  published and provided by 
FFG OP. This includes seasonal Weekly Play and official Casual and Competitive series events.  
 
Unofficial  events are those without an Event Outline. This includes both events that do not 
utilize an FFG OP product and events that utilize a non -championship FFG OP product without 
an Event Outline. FFG strongly recommends that Event Organizers of unofficial events 
communicate their event’s details to participants by utilizing the event tiers and structures 
defined in this document.  
 
Unsanctioned  events are events run by someone who does not have authorization from FFG to 
create an event using FFG’s official event software , or by someone running an event using a 
method or location that is not approved or supported by FFG.  
 
1.3 Event Tiers  
There are two tiers of FFG OP events: Casual  events and Competitive  events.  These tiers serve 
to establish the expectations of the event. The tiers are not intended to exclude people from 
participating, but rather are meant to communicate the experience that players can expect from 
the event. Official events, including tournaments, will be categorized as one of these two tiers. 
Unofficial events  are always considered to be  Casual -tier even ts. 
 5 
 1.3-A. Casual Tier  
Events at this tier are welcoming to all players, regardless of experience level. The focus of 
Casual events is on creating a fun and friendly environment where new players can learn and 
enjoy the game alongside long -time veterans. Weekly Play Nights and store -level events that do 
not award tournament points are considered Casual -tier events.  
 
Even at Casual tournaments that award prizes for wins and/or placement, p articipants of these 
events are expected to be welcoming and help each other learn  and improve at  the game.  
 
1.3-B. Competitive Tier  
Events at this tier expect players to possess at least moderate knowledge and experience of the 
game in question. Players should be familiar with the game rules and the event  regulations , and 
they should be prepared to exercise that knowledge to play at a reasonable pace. The focus of a 
Competitive -tier event is a friendly, competitive, and fair environment. Larger -scale, official 
FFG OP events that award tournament points are considered to be Competitive -tier events.  
 
1.4 Event Types  
Events serve primarily as a way to facilitate the game being played. Clear communication of the 
event details to all participants is the best way to set expectations appropriately. The first step in 
designing an event is deciding what type of event it is, based on its intended purpose.  
 
1.4-A. Weekly Play  
Meant to be a very inviting event with minimal structure, Weekly Play events typically consist of 
only a scheduled time and location. The Event Organizer arranges for space to play, and players 
are invited to attend and play at their leisure with opponents of their own choosing. Prizes given 
away at Weekly Play events are typically based on players ’ engagement rather than their overall 
performance.  
 
1.4-B. Tournament  
A tournament is a structured event in which players are paired against each other for multiple 
rounds. Some tournaments feature a “top cut,” in which only certain players advance to further 
rounds.  
 
The tournament tier (Casual or Competitive) and structure should be properly communicated 
when offering registration and before beginning the first round of play. Prizes are awarded in 
tournaments based on  players’ overall performance.  
 
1.5 Prize Distribution  
It is important that events which offer prizes clearly define how those prizes are distributed  and 
all local, state, and federal laws and regulations should be followed . The Event Outline of an 
official event includes the minimum prize distribution , which must  be used. Event Organizers are 
welcome to supplement the event with additional prizing.  6 
  
Event Organizers of unofficial events should clearly communicate the way that any prizes will be 
awarded prior to enrolling players and then ensure that prizes are distributed in that exact 
manner.  
 
Prizes for tournaments should be awarded to appropriate players as they each conclude their 
participation , even if the tournament has not yet ended. For example, if a prize is to be 
distributed to the Top 32 players and there are only 32 players remaining, give that prize to every 
player that drops from the tournament beyond that point. Similarly, if a prize is to be distributed 
to the Top 4 players, only give that prize to players when the event has four or less players 
remaining. At the end of the event, all remaining players should be awarded their appropriate 
prizes.  
 
Important Note:  Players who have been Disqualified  from an event forfeit any and all prizes 
they would have earned  from their placement . More information about Disqualifications can be 
found later in this document in Part 2: Floor Rules . 
 
2. Event Participant Roles  
Every person that is part of an event is a participant. Participants are classified into roles based 
on that person’s responsibilities . A participant’s failure to fulfill the responsibilities of their role 
may violate the integrity of an event by disrupting a fair, safe, and inclusive environment. 
Suspected violations may be subject to investigation at the discretion of FFG . All participants 
share the responsibility of interacting with each other in a fair and respectful manner.  
 
The different participant roles  are: 
• Leaders  
o Event  Organizer  
o Judges  
▪ Head Judge  
▪ Floor Judge s 
o Scorekeeper  (for tournaments)  
o Additional Event Staff (optional)  
▪ Event Manager  
▪ Media  Staff  
• Players  
• Spectators  
o On-Site Spectators  
o Digital Spectators  
o Influencers  and Media  
 7 
 All official FFG OP events must have exactly one Event  Organizer . All Competitive -tier events 
must also have at least one person in each of the non -optional Leader roles listed above , each of 
whom should have demonstrated expertise in the game rules and event regulations .  
 
Note that the Event Outline for an official event may dictate additional staffing requirements.  
 
2.1 Eligible Participants  
Eligibility to participate in an official Fantasy Flight Games Organized Play —whether as a 
player, leader, or other role —is a privilege extended to all, with the following exceptions:  
 
• The FFG Organized Play Suspension Policy includes a list of people for whom eligibility 
has been revoked, and official Event Organizers are required to enforce those 
suspensions.  
• Employees of Fantasy Flight Games, Asmodee, and any of its subsidiaries  and affiliates  
cannot participate as a player in official Competitive -tier events.  
• Individuals prohibited from participating by applicable laws.  
• Minors are ineligible to participate in FFG OP unless they have the permission of their 
legal guardian. A minor and their guardian declare that this permission has been given by 
allowing the minor to attempt to enroll in an event , however written releases may be 
required . All local, state, and federal laws and regulations should be followed, including 
prize eligibility.  
• Other individuals deemed ineligible, at the sole discretion of Fantasy Flight Games.  
 
Official FFG OP events must not restrict eligibility in any way other than those listed here unless 
the Event Outline explicitly allows for it.  
 
2.2 Leader Roles  
Leaders  are the individuals who lead and manage an event. The leader roles are: Event 
Organizer , Head Judge , Floor Judge , Scorekeeper , Event Manager , and Livestream Staff.  
 
If unsure about an issue, leaders should consult the game rules and event regulations (especially 
the Part 2: Floor Rules  section of this document) provided by FFG before making a decision.  
Leaders should avoid any actions that could be misconstrued as introducing impropriety to the 
event, such as favoritism, nepotism, or general unprofessionalism.  
 
2.2-A. Event Organizer  (a.k.a. Tournament Organizer)  
All events must have a single person designated as the Event Organizer. This person is ultimately 
responsible for the entire event, including both planning and execution.  The Event Organizer 
holds the following responsibilities:  
 
• Providing or arranging for a location for the event.  
• Obtaining all materials necessary for the execution of the event.  8 
 • Publicizing the details of the event.  
• Selecting people to fill other leader roles, if necessary.  
• Maintaining the integrity of the event.  
• Supervising the performance of other leaders.  
• Arranging for the distribution of prizes.  
• Resolving any unforeseen issues which may arise during the event.  
• Being available at the event location throughout the entirety of the event.  
o If required to leave for any reason, the Event Organizer must designate an Event 
Manager to act in their stead until they return (see 2.2-E. Additional Event Staff  
below).  
• Overseeing the scorekeeping of the event and deciding how to repair scorekeeping errors  
alongside the Scorekeeper (if there is one) . At Competitive -tier tournaments, players 
should not be involved in the scorekeeping process.  
• The Event Organizer may deny entry to a participant if the player is barred from the 
venue or would exceed the venue’s capacity. This is in addition to the rules listed under 
2.1 Eligible Participants above.  
• The Event Organizer may have a participant removed from the venue  and should do so if 
that participant has performed any of the significant unsporting  conduct detailed in Part 
2: Floor Rules . 
• The Event Organizer may designate one or more individuals as a leader, such as Head 
Judge, Floor Judge, S corekeeper, etc.  
• The Event Organizer may always modify which individuals are designated for leader 
roles to preserve the integrity of the event.  
• By default, the Event Organizer also holds the responsibilities of every leader role that 
they have not appointed someone to serve as.  
 
2.2-B. Head Judge  
An event may have up to a single Head Judge. A Head Judge should be very knowledgeable in 
the game rules and event regulations. These leaders act as the final authority for the 
interpretation and application  in those matters. The Head Judge responsibilities are:  
 
• Familiarizing themself with up-to-date rules documentation . 
• Enforcing correct rulings and tournament policies.  
• Clearly identifying themself as the Head Judge to players at the start of an event.  
• Reviewing determinations made by Floor Judges when a player requests that they do so 
and providing a final determination.  
• Providing final determinations when they answer game rules and event regulation 
questions themself or when they personally resolve disputes between players regarding 
the game state.  
• At a tournament, making informational announcements after completing player 
enrollment, just before beginning the first round of play.  The Head Judge announcement 9 
 will briefly explain the tournament tier, provide details of the event’s structure, and warn 
against unsporting conduct.  
• Helping to determine if unsporting conduct has occurred and what the appropriate 
remedy for the situation is. In cases where Disqualification of a participant is possible, 
the Head Judge should inform the Event Organizer before issuing the penalty.  
o Only the Head Judge has the authority to disqualify participants from an event. 
More information about this penalty can be found in Part 2: Floor Rules.  
• Maintaining an air of professionalism and courtesy while staffing the event.  
o Head Judges should refrain from engaging in trading, long personal 
conversations, phone calls, or other activities that would distract them from their 
duties during the event.  
• Reporting results  of Competitive -tier events  to FFG OP, when applicable (see below).  
• (Optional) Performing the duties and responsibilities of a Floor Judge.  
 
The Head Judge is responsible for reporting the results  of Competitive -tier events  to FFG OP. 
Most of the time, this will be handled automatically by the official tournament software on 
Melee.gg . However, if the available technology prevents automatic reporting, the Head Judge 
must send an email to FFG OP within 1 week of the event’s conclusion. This email must contain 
the following information:  
• Event results  
• Final player standings  
• Any incidents that occurred  
• Penalt ies issued, disqualifications, and/or bans  
• Any and all rulings  they made during the event , including thorough descriptions of the 
situation , justifications for the rulings, and justification  for why the Head Judge decided 
not to follow the written rules (see below).  
 
A Head Judge’s rulings and decisions about the game and the event are final and absolute. T he 
Head Judge should always try to stick to the written rules as much as possible, but may decide in 
rare occasions  to deviate from these rules in order to ensure the event runs smoothly for all 
players and its integrity is maintained.  Any ruling that is made  by the Head Judge  about a 
specific card or c ard interaction during a n event should be communicated to all participating 
players as soon as possible between rounds. This ruling is only valid during that event  and only 
for games happening during that event . In case of a conflict, a ruling made by a Head Judge 
overrules the written rules of the game and its Tournament Regulations. Any such ruling made by 
a Head Judge must be communicated to FFG OP via email , including a clear explanation of the 
ruling that was made and justification for why the ruling was made.  
 
2.2-C. Floor Judge  
An event may have any number of Floor Judges, including none. These leaders are expected to 
be knowledgeable of the game rules and event regulations. Floor Judge responsibilities  include:  
 10 
 • Assisting players and spectators. The primary way that Floor Judges do so is by resolving 
infractions or answering questions of the game rules and event regulations as they arise.  
o Floor Judges also help to resolve disputes between players regarding the game 
state. Their determinations are subject to review by the Head Judge.  
o Floor Judges can answer questions about game mechanics, the legality of the 
activation of an effect, and the understanding of a particular card’s text. However, 
the judge can ONLY answer these questions if they pertain to cards  or effects  on 
the table  or in a player’s discard pile (i.e. , cards that are public knowledge).  
• Walking around the event floor and observing matches  and intervening when an 
infraction is noticed . 
• Performing deck checks to ensure the integrity of the event is maintained.  
o Deck checks can be performed at any point during an event, including during a 
game.  
• Assisting in the  delivery of match results to the Scorekeeper.    
• Maintaining an air of professionalism and courtesy while staffing the event.  
o Floor Judges should refrain from engaging in trading, long personal 
conversations, phone calls, or other activities that would distract them from their 
duties during the event.  
• Referring any issues related to unsporting conduct to the Event Organizer and/or Head 
Judge.  
• Respecting the authority of the Head Judge and Event Organizer  and helping them to 
ensure the event runs as smoothly as possible.  
 
2.2-D. Scorekeeper  
Any tournament event, especially Competitive -tier tournaments, should have at least one 
Scorekeeper. These leaders help keep the engine of the event running, and they are expected to 
be knowledgeable of at least the event regulations.  Scorekeeper responsibilities include:  
 
• Utilizing tournament software to accurately track each player’s win -loss record . 
• Printing, distributing, and collecting match slips for each round of the tournament.  
• Ensuring that each player is paired with the correct opponent.  
o This includes clearly posting the pairings for players to see.  
o During Swiss rounds , the correct opponent is a player who shares the same win -
loss record, or as close to that as possible.  
o During Elimination rounds, the correct opponent is the next player along the 
bracket track.  
• Correcting errors in players’ records or round pairings.  
o If correcting an error would significantly alter current pairin gs or affect the 
tournament’s round structure, the Scorekeeper should discuss the correct course of 
action with  the Head Judge and/or Event Organizer . 
 11 
 *Note: For larger events, it is beneficial to have multiple Scorekeepers  in order to divvy up the 
above responsibilities to improve efficiency.  
 
2.2-E. Additional Event Staff  
There are two additional , optional leader roles that can be utilized in an event: the Event 
Manager  and the Media  Staff .  
 
The Event Manager  functions as the Event Organizer’s second -in-command and  assumes all the 
same responsibilities as the Event Organizer whenever the Organizer is unavailable. In larger 
events, the Event Organizer can delegate some of their responsibilities to the Event Manager in 
order to help improve efficiency  in running the event.  
 
The Media  Staff  includes anyone taking photos, providing commentary, interviewing players, 
and/or operating livestream equipment in direct association with the Event Organizer . Only 
people designated as Media  Staff by the Event Organizer are considered to be this type of leader; 
third parties providing their own media coverage  (with the consent of the Event Organizer and 
any players involved)  are not considered to be Media  Staff for the event.  Instead, they are 
considered to fall under 2.4-C. Influencers and Media . 
 
2.3 Players  
The duties of a player are numerous but can be summarized as follows: come prepared and play 
with good sportsmanship. Players hold the following responsibilities:  
 
• Being physically present at the event and playing in at least one round of the event. A 
player that enrolls but does not play in any rounds of the event is not considered to have 
been a player and is not eligible for any prizes, even participation prizes.  
• Bringing all necessary materials to play in the event. This includes materials required by 
the Event Organizer and any materials defined in the relevant game rules or event 
regulations.  
• Informing a Scorekeeper  of their intent to leave or drop from the event, verbally or in 
writing if requested.  
• Interacting with other participants in a respectful manner and providing honest and 
complete information to leaders.  
• Making decisions and playing at a reasonable pace  (see Part 2: Floor Rules, Section 3.6 
Slow Play  for more information) . 
• Communicating in a sufficiently clear manner with their opponents and maintaining a 
clear game state.  
o This includes proper use of tokens, markers, and counters that leave no room for 
ambiguity. For example, if a player places their hand on the table temporarily, it is 
advised that they place a marker on those cards to distinguish them from any other 
face-down cards that may be on the table.  12 
 • Seeking the assistance of a Floor Judge if unable to amicably resolve a game disruption 
in their current game.  
• Not engaging in unsporting conduct or violating the integrity of an event  (see Part 2: 
Floor Rules, Section 3.8 Unsporting Conduct  for more information) . 
• Immediately informing a leader of any unsporting conduct or attempts to undermine the 
integrity of an event.  
• Abiding by the eligibility restrictions of an event (see 2.1 Eligible Partic ipants ). 
• Being aware of the contents of this document. Players are not expected to memorize the 
Master Event Document, but they will be expected to act in accordance with the content  
herein, especially that of Part 2: Floor Rules.  
 
2.4 Spectators  
All Spectators are optional participants in an event. They come in three varieties: On-Site 
Spectators , Digital Spectators , and Influencers and Media.  
 
2.4-A. On -Site Spectators  
All people present at an event are participating as On -Site Spectators when not actively engaging 
in another role. This includes casual observers who may have never heard of the game being 
played and players who are glancing over at another match between gameplay actions. On -Site 
Spectators have the following responsibilities:  
 
• Refraining from providing outside assistance to players during their games.  
• Not disturbing games. This includes discussion of the game in progress, making 
excessively loud noises, or physically intruding on the players or their gameplay area.  
o If a Spectator witnesses a gameplay mistake , they should respectfully inform a 
Floor Judge without disturbing or interrupting the game . 
• Respecting a request by a player or leader to not observe a game or games.  
 
2.4-B. Digital Spectators  
All people who are watching a stream, recording, or other digital footage of an event are Digital 
Spectators. The footage in question does not need to be recent to qualify as event footage, and 
thus anytime a Digital Spectator observes a game, they must ab ide by the following 
responsibilities:  
 
• Refraining from providing outside assistance to players during their games.  
• Not engaging in harmful, inappropriate, or irrelevant conversation in the chat.  
• Showing respect to other Digital Spectators and to the people within the footage itself 
(expressing opinions about a person’s gameplay choices is fine ; calling that person names 
or making fun of them for their choices is not).  
 
2.4-C. Influencers and Media  13 
 All people  who provide commentary during a game, interview players between games, or record 
or stream footage of a game (without being officially  designated Media  Staff) are considered 
Influencers and Media. Regardless of the work they are doing, all Influencers and Media must 
abide by the following responsibilities:  
 
• Obtaining the express consent of both the Event Organizer and any players * or event staff 
involved in their interview, recording, stream, etc.  
o Taking photographs is a form of recording, and thus requires consent just like all 
other forms of media.  
o *Minors cannot be interviewed , and their gameplay cannot be  recorded or 
streamed by anyone other than official Media  Staff , without exception.   
• Refraining from providing outside assistance to players during their games.  
• Not disturbing games. This includes discussion of the game in progress, making 
excessively loud noises, or physically intruding on the players or their gameplay area.  
o Anyone providing commentary for a particular game must do so from a respectful 
distance so that their commentary does not disturb the players . 
o If an Influencer or Media person witnesses a gameplay mistake , they should 
respectfully inform a Floor Judge without disturbing or interrupting the game . 
• Respecting a request by a player or leader to not observe a game or games.  
 
2.5 Performing Multiple Roles  
Certain participants may engage in multiple roles in an event. NOTE:  Even when a person stops 
performing a role at a particular event, they must still observe these restrictions in respect to their 
previous roles.  
 
• At any event, regardless if it is Casual - or Competitive -tier, players cannot also perform 
any leader role.  
• The Event Organizer must perform the duties of each other required leader role that they 
have not designated someone to fulfill. The Event Organizer cannot actively perform any 
non-leader role, except On -Site Spectator.  
• A Head Judge that is designated by the Event Organizer cannot actively perform any 
other role, except On -Site Spectator.  
 
3. Tournaments  
Many official FFG OP events, especially Competitive -tier events, take the form of a tournament. 
This section outlines the basic elements of a tournament, which should be clearly communicated 
by the Event Organizer during the promotional period of an upcoming event.  
 
3.1 Tournament Structure  
The structure of a tournament determines how the tournament will proceed from start to finish. 
These details include:  
 14 
 • The number of Swiss rounds to be played. This may be based on attendance.  
• The length of time allotted for each round of gameplay.  
• The gameplay format and/or variant (if any).  
• The number of players in  any progression cuts.  
• If a progression cut is followed by Swiss, elimination, or double -elimination rounds . 
• What determines the end of the tournament.  
 
3.2 Tournament Round Mechanics  
In a tournament , each time a player is assigned an opponent to play against (or multiple 
opponents in multiplayer formats), they play a round. Each game will define what gameplay 
constitutes a tournament round in its Tournament Regulations. Different types of rounds are 
detailed below:  
 
3.2-A. Swiss Rounds  
A Swiss round is one in which an opponent is paired randomly against another player with the 
same win/loss record  in the current event (or a similar record, if there are no remaining unpaired 
players with the same record). The results of every Swiss round are reported to the Scorekeeper. 
Players can participate in all Swiss rounds of a tournament that occur before a progression cut.  
 
3.2-B. Elimination Round s 
An elimination round is one in which the losing player is potentially removed from the 
tournament. They are most frequently used following a progression cut after a number of Swiss 
rounds. Each game defines a method for determining the winner of an elimination round. 
Elimination rounds can be single -elimination or dou ble-elimination.  Players can be randomly 
placed into a bracket or seeded according to their current tournament standing.  
 
In single -elimination  rounds, once a player has lost  a match , they are removed from the 
tournament. T heir final position in the tournament is determined by the number of elimination -
round opponents they faced before being eliminated.  
 
In double -elimination rounds, a player must lose twice before being eliminated. After their first 
loss, the player is paired against other players who have lost a match  and continue to play in a 
separate bracket until they either lose again or win the tournament.  The player’s final position  in 
the tournament  is determined by the number of players that made it farther in the “losers bracket” 
than them.  
 
3.2-C. Progression Cut  
A progression cut is a process used to separate  the players who have met a certain threshold for 
performance or standing and allow them to continue competing in the tournament. The majority 
of tournaments that feature a progression cut will only utilize one:  a progression cut to single - or 
double -elimination rounds after Swiss rounds.  
 15 
 There are two different methods to conduct a progression cut:  
• Standings -Based:  After a number of  tournament rounds, standings for all players in the 
tournament are generated, using tiebreakers to assign each player a specific placement. A 
standings -based progression cut removes all players below a certain placement from the 
tournament. The tournament then continues with the remaining players, usually with 
elimination rounds.  
• Record -Based:  After a number of tournament rounds , players are categorized by their 
win-loss records. A record -based progression cut removes all players who have not 
achieved a predeclared win -loss record  from the tournament. The tournament then 
continues with the remaining players, usually with elimination rounds.  
 
3.2-D. Bye  
A bye is an automatic win granted to a player for one tournament round. That player is not 
assigned an opponent for that round. Byes are most frequently awarded when the number of 
players is not divisible by two and one player is therefore unable to play f or the round.  
 
  16 
 Part 2: Floor Rules  
 
Introduction  
In order for the competition inherent in a game to have meaning, the competitors must implicitly 
agree to play the game correctly, and to challenge one another and themselves within the 
confines and structures of that game. This document provides all participants of Fantasy Flight 
Games Organized Play events the appropriate procedures , guidelines, and penalties involved in 
proper ly handling rules and conduct violations that may occur at an FFG tournament. In addition, 
these guidelines explain the general ph ilosophy behind several of FFG’s Organized Play policies. 
All of the points described in this document are intended  to promote a fair and enjoyable 
gameplay experience for all players at any given FFG event.  
 
How to Use These Floor Rules  
These procedure guidelines cover two broad categories: gameplay disruptions  and event 
disruptions .  
 
It is the players’ duty that all steps and sequences in a game are observed and executed 
accurately, and that the experience is enjoyable for both parties involved. It is the Judges’ duty 
(both the Head Judge and Floor Judges)  to determine the proper resolution of any issues that may 
occur over the course of an event, be they gameplay -related or related to the event itself. Making 
these judgment calls is one of the central skills of being a Judge.  The ability to assess the 
details of a specific situation an d make the ruling that best upholds both the letter and spirit of 
the rules is one of the most important reasons to have official  Judges at events. If necessary, a 
Floor Judge can refer to the Head Judge for assistance.  
 
This document empowers leaders of FFG OP events to make these critical decisions. A spectrum 
of possible resolutions exists for each disruption that could occur, and these guidelines exist to 
help Floor Judges and Head Judges determine which resolution best fits the situation at hand.  
When issuing a greater penalty than a  Warning Penalty (read this document further for details 
about different penalty types), the Head Judge should approve the penalty . If a Disqualification is 
issued, the Event Organizer should  also be made aware  (keep in mind that only a Head Judge can 
issue Disqualificat ions) . If there is a dispute about a particular issued penalty, the final call is up 
to the Head Judge based on their respective knowledge of the event and the disruption in 
question.  
 
Any disputes, arguments, or other issues regarding a Disqualification or other penalty should be 
reported directly to FFG Organized Play at OrganizedPlay@FantasyFlightGames.com . 
 
  17 
 1. Philosophy and General Guidelines  
Fantasy Flight Games’ Organized Play events uphold a mindset of providing an enjoyable 
experience that is open to anyone who wants to come and play a game.  This philosophy holds 
true across all of FFG’s brands, regardless of a game’s age or legacy.  
 
Penalties are intended to educate players who have made a mistake, whether that mistake was 
gameplay -related or conduct -related.  The reason a penalty is applied at all is to help players learn 
from their mistakes, and to deter them and other players from making similar mistakes in the 
future.  
 
1.1 The Role of a Judge  
As a mediator and conflict resolver, it is a Judge’s duty (both Floor Judges and the Head Judge) 
to remain impartial and objective no matter what situations may arise. Floor Judges should not 
involve themselves in a particular match unless they have reason to believe a rules or event 
guideline violation has occurred. If a Floor Judge witnesses a mistake being performed by a 
player, they may approach the table and explain to the players the mistake that was made and 
then correct it accordingly. A Floor Judge  should be capable of identifying an issue and 
determining the correct response based on the guidelines laid out in this document.   
 
A Floor Judge should be able to realize if a situation may call their impartiality into question. 
When they recognize this, the Floor Judge should inform the Head Judge of the event and have 
either a different Floor Judge or the Head Judge make the decision.  
 
All Judges are human, which means they are capable of making mistakes. Upon making a 
mistake, a Judge should acknowledge it and apologize for their error , then attempt to fix it if it is 
not too late . If a player commits a gameplay  disruption directly because of incorrect information 
from a Judge, the Head Judge is allowed to downgrade any penalty that player may receive 
because of it.  
 
If a player believes that a Floor Judge has issued an incorrect ruling or penalty, that player may 
appeal to the Head Judge. The Head Judge should listen to both the Floor Judge and the player 
before deciding on a resolution. Once made, the Head Judge’s decision is final.  
 
Floor Judges  should not deviate from this document’s guidelines. If a Floor Judge feels that a 
deviation is necessary, they should consult with the Head Judge first. The Head Judge of an 
event  has the final say on rulings and penalty decisions.  
 
1.2 Penalty Definitions  
There are four types of penalties  that are used to enforce the guidelines laid out in this document: 
Point Penalties, Game Losses, Match Losses , and Disqualification.  
 
1.2-A. Point Penalties  18 
 Point Penalties are the most common form of penalty. The purpose of these penalties is to notify 
the player that their behavior has moved outside of the rules, to prompt them to correct their 
behavior, and to educate them so they do not repeat the mistake. When a player is issued a 
penalty  at an official  event , the involved Judge should write down the player’s name and the 
reason they have been given the penalty, as well as how many penalty points  that player 
receives from it (explained below). Please keep in mind that certain gameplay -related  penalties 
can (and should)  be lessened during Casual -tier events . 
 
Point Penalties come in four varieties: Warning Penalty , Escalated Penalty , Severe Penalty , 
and Extreme Penalty .  
 
A Warning Penalty  is the most basic form of penalty and is given out when a player commits a 
minor gameplay disruption that is quickly and easily resolved. These penalties are worth 1 
penalty point . 
 
An Escalated Penalty  is given when a player causes an intermediate gameplay disruption or 
minor event disruption , such as a simple error on their deck list or unintentional slow play. These 
penalties are worth 2 penalty points . 
 
A Severe Penalty  is given when a player repeats an  infraction, causes a significant gameplay 
disruption, or causes an intermediate event disruption, such as a heated argument between 
players or bad attitude toward a Judge. These penalties are worth 4 penalty points . 
 
An Extreme Penalty  is given when a player causes a significant event disruption that does not 
quite warrant a Disqualification, such as aggressive behavior toward an opponent or spouting 
profanities. These penalties are worth 8 penalty points .  
 
If a player ever accumulates 10 or more penalty points, that player is Disqualified.  
 
As was mentioned earlier , penalty points granted due to gameplay  and non-behavioral event  
disruptions should be worth 1 fewer penalty point each at Casual -tier events. This is be cause, at 
events where newer players are still learning the game, it is more appropriate to be lax on 
disruptions related to players making honest mistakes as they play. However, penalties due to 
poor behavior, unsporting conduct, or cheating should never  be reduced.  
 
For events that have a streaming table, a Floor Judge may, at their discretion, increase the penalty 
point value of any behavior -related infractions that happen on stream, particularly for those 
involving unsporting conduct.  
 
While submitting the results of an event to FFG, the Head Judge  should make sure that the 
penalty point records of each player that received penalties are included in the event report. In 
addition, if the Head Judge made any rulings that deviate from the written rules of the game, they 
should include an explanation of those rulings and why they were made.  19 
  
For a clear overview of what infractions can lead to a Point Penalty, see Appendix: Penalty 
Guidelines  on pg. 31. 
 
1.2-B. Game Loss and Match Loss  
A Game Loss  is a standard penalty when a player commits a more serious disruption for which a 
Point Penalty alone is not sufficient,  or a game has been disrupted to the point of no longer being 
salvageable . The player scores as if they lost the game (or came in last place at a multiplayer 
table), and the winning player is awarded a win . A Game Loss is issued alongside an appropriate 
Point Penalty, typically an Escalated or Severe Penalty , depending on the disruption .  
 
A Match Loss  is similar to  a Game Loss but takes it a step further. For tournament rounds where 
there are several games to a match (i.e. , a best -of-three match) , a Match Loss means the 
penalized player scores as if they lost the whole match, not just a single game. This is a more 
severe penalty that should be applied if a Game Loss is not sufficient. A Match Loss is issued 
alongside an appropriate Point Penalty, typically a Severe or Extreme Penalty, depending on the 
disruption.  
 
Every Game Loss and Match Loss penalty must be approved by the Head Judge before being 
issued. While submitting the results of an event to FFG, the Head Judge  should include the 
names of all players who received a Game/Match Loss penalty throughout the event  and 
why they received that penalty.  
 
1.2-C. Disqualification  
Disqualification is the standard penalty if a player has received 10 or more penalty points in an 
event . The player automatically receives a Match Loss for the current round and is dropped from 
the event  without receiving any prizes associated with their final position.  
 
Note: Only the Head Judge has the authority to Disqualify a player from an event.  Floor 
Judges may recommend a certain player for Disqualification to the Head Judge —such as when 
that player receives multiple Point Penalties —but only the Head Judge themself is able to 
actually Disqualify them.  
 
At the Event Organizer’s discretion, a player can be removed from the event venue , especially 
when that player has been Disqualified.  
 
While submitting the results of an event to FFG, the Event Organizer should include the names 
of all players who received a Disqualification throughout the event  and why they received 
that penalty . If a player consistently earns Game/Match  Losses or Disqualifications across 
multiple events, this information should be shared with FFG OP as well. Organized Play events 
should operate under the assumption that all players are given the benefit of the doubt; that said, 
patterned disruptive behavior should not be ignored.  
 20 
 2. Gameplay Disruptions  
2.1 What Defines a Gameplay Disruption  
A Gameplay Disruption occurs whenever a game step, sequence, or mandatory occurrence is 
unintentionally overlooked or performed erroneously. For dealing with issues regarding repeated 
or intentional abuse or violation of the rules, see the Cheating  section of Unsporting Conduct  
under 3. Event Disruptions.  
 
It is each player’s responsibility to play the game accurately and resolve all mandatory card 
abilities and game steps as necessary in order to maintain a proper game state. The potential for 
one player or the other to gain advantage by overlooking a step or mandatory occurrence is very 
real, which is why these disruptions are taken seriously. Even if a player did not intend to 
overlook a rule, they could still benefit enough to turn the game in their favor. Thus, it is 
imperative that these disruptions be dealt with in order to restore the integrity of the game. To do 
this, Floor Judges are encouraged to use one of two main resolutions: resolve now  or rewind . 
 
The resolve now  solution is used when the overlooked rule or ability in question can still be 
retroactively applied without giving either player major advantage.  
 
The rewind  solution is used when the resolve now solution cannot be used without giving one 
player significant advantage over the other. For this solution, players reverse their actions and 
“back up” the game to the point where the mistake was made, correct it, then  continue on from 
that point as normal.  
 
When performing a rewind, the Floor Judge should ensure the following:  
• A proper investigation is conducted on the situation, the board state, past actions, the 
possibility of malicious  intent/unsporting conduct, and who is gaining information and/or 
advantages from the situation.  
• An investigation should ideally take only a few minutes. If the investigation takes more 
than two minutes, then additional time should be given to the players to finish their 
match.  
• After performing the rewind, the Floor Judge’s “footprint” on the game should be as little 
as possible. Even the slightest disruption to the flow of the game should be avoided when 
possible.  
• Remember, the goal of the Floor Judge , when possible, is to make sure the game is 
continuing as it should have on every aspect, as if the problematic situation never 
occurred.  
 
Please note that the further from an oversight a game advances, the more complicated the rewind 
procedure becomes. If the game has advanced to a point where rewinding would undo a 
significant portion of the game, the Floor Judge can decide, on their judgment, that the game 
cannot be rewound. If this happens, the Head Judge should be notified, and the player who 
committed the infraction is given a Game Loss.  21 
  
As a general rule, it is up to the Floor Judge to decide what action is necessary to resolve an 
issue. If a Floor Judge is uncertain about what to do, they should call the Head Judge to help 
determine a solution.  
 
The three types of gameplay disruptions are: Missed Mandatory Abilities, Missed Game Steps , 
and Inaccurate Gameplay . Generally, if a gameplay disruption is relatively small and only 
happens once, then the player receives a Warning Penalty  and that’s it. If a disruption is larger 
(meaning it significantly disrupts the flow of the tournament round), or a player commits the 
same gameplay -related infraction more than once, then the penalty may be escalated accordingly.  
 
2.2 Missed Mandatory Abilities  
A missed mandatory ability occurs whenever an automatic card ability that should have occurred 
is skipped or overlooked. A mandatory ability that should not occur, but is resolved by mistake, 
also counts as a missed mandatory ability.  
 
Examples of mandatory abilities include conditional card text (“when X occurs, do Y ,” etc.)  and 
non-optional keyword abilities.  Optional abilities often include “may” in the ability’s description.  
 
It is a player’s responsibility to make sure both they and their opponent(s) are fully aware  of all 
abilities (both mandatory and optional)  of each card they play, both when the card is initially 
played and when asked at any point. This includes a clear distinction of who controls each ability 
and who benefits from them. This responsibility is doubly important in an international 
environment in which players may have cards written in different languages than their 
opponents.  
 
Likewise, it is a player’s responsibility to resolve each ability at the appropriate time , and to 
know when the trigger and its resolution occur. Sportsmanship is encouraged, and players can 
remind their opponents of their optional abilities if they wish, though this is not mandatory.  
 
The responsibility is shared by all players to make sure if a player can or cannot take a specific 
action or resolve a specific ability, or if they are finished with their actions and abilities.  
 
2.3 Missed Game Steps  
A missed game step (or game effect) occurs whenever  an automatic game occurrence that should 
have occurred is skipped or overlooked. A forced game occurrence that should not occur, but is 
resolved by mistake, is also considered a missed game step.  
 
Examples of game steps include the readying of cards  at the end of a round , drawing cards,  or the 
removal of tokens/cards at the end of the round.  
 
2.4 Inaccurate Gameplay  22 
 Inaccurate gameplay occurs any time an ability or game step is resolved in an incorrect or 
inaccurate manner.  
 
Examples of inaccurate gameplay include when a player performs an illegal action  (such as 
playing a card when an effect prevents them from doing so)  or incorrectly resolves a card ability 
(such as if they misread a number).  
 
2.5 Repeated Gameplay Disruptions  
The guidelines laid out in this section have been in reference to the first time a player 
unintentionally  commits any of these infractions over the course of an event. Even expert players 
are capable of making the occasional mistake, thus the first time one of these incidents occurs in 
an event , a low -level penalty is often sufficient  (unless it leads to a much larger disruption of the 
event overall). However, if a player repeats the same mistake a second or third time over the 
course of the same event, the n this is a more serious infraction.  
 
As mentioned earlier in this document, the purpose of a penalty system is to inform a player 
when they have committed an infraction and to educate them so that it does not happen again. If 
a player does not heed this warning and performs the same mistake a gain, then the involved 
leader should investigate for cheating.  
 
Regardless of the reason behind it, a repeated infraction should be taken seriously, and thus 
warrants a n Escalated Penalty at the very least.  
 
3. Event Disruptions  
3.1 What Defines an Event Disruption  
An Event Disruption  occurs whenever a participant makes a mistake or behaves in a manner 
that threatens the integrity, hospitality, or general safety of the event itself. While gameplay 
disruptions can throw off an individual game, event disruptions can affect the entire eve nt, and 
thus should not be taken lightly. Event disruptions can be intentional or unintentional —it is up to 
the Floor Judges, the Head Judge, and the Event  Organizer to interpret a situation and determine 
the best course of action.  
 
The goal of FFG’s Organized Play is to promote a safe, welcoming environment for players of all 
kinds to come and enjoy the games they love. Event disruptions, even minor ones, can lower or 
even ruin an attendee’s enjoyment. All attendees  are held to the expectation that they treat every 
person around them with politeness, respect, and general courtesy. Those who violate this 
expectation risk being deemed unwelcome at the event, and, at the Event  Organizer’s discretion, 
may be removed from the premises. Rep eat offenders may be suspended from attending official 
FFG OP events , at FFG’s discretion.  
 
3.2 Tardiness and Absences – Escalated Penalty , Game/Match Loss  23 
 Each player in an Organized Play event is responsible for being present at the correct  table at the 
start of a tournament round. If a player is not in their correct seat by the scheduled start time of 
the round, then that player is tardy , and their opponent may call a Floor Judge and ask them to 
start a timer. The tardy player receives an Escalated Penalty  at this time .  
 
A player is tardy if they are between 1 and 5 minutes late. After 5 minutes, if the tardy player 
still has not shown up, then that player is absent  and is given a Game Loss . If the absent player 
does not show up within 10 minutes of the start of the round , then that player is given a Match 
Loss , they receive a Severe Penalty , and they are dropped from the tournament roster . This is 
not a Disqualification —if, after being dropped from the tournament, the absent player shows up 
again  before the beginning of the next round, that player may be re -added to the tournament 
roster upon their request . 
 
A player must take care to arrive at the correct seat and play against the correct opponent. If a 
player sits at the wrong table and plays against the wrong opponent, this counts as being 
tardy/absent  for their actual scheduled match. The player who sat at the wrong table receives a 
Game Loss, and both players  receive  the Escalated Penalty —this is because  both players in a 
match are responsible for paying attention to the pairings and making sure that they play against 
the correct opponent.  
 
For events that have a streaming table and/or static seating, those tables are treated the same as 
any other table regarding tardiness and absence.  
 
3.3 Errors with Deck Lists – Escalated Penalt y, Game/Match Loss  
Deck lists are tools used by leaders to ensure the validity of a particular deck, as well as check 
during the course of a tournament whether or not a player has altered their deck’s contents. At 
any time in between rounds, a Floor Judge may check a player’s deck to see if it matches their 
list. 
 
If an error or illegality is found on a player’s list before the beginning of a round —such as a deck 
having less than the legal number of cards —a Judge should explain the error to the player and 
ask them to fix it before the round begins. If the error is discovered before the first round of the 
tournament , the player fixes the error and only receives a Warning Penalty. If the error is 
discovered in between rounds, however, then the player receives a larger penalty (described in 
the table at the top of the next page ) in addition to having to fix their deck or deck list. If the 
Floor Judge thinks this error may have been committed intentionally by t he player to gain an 
advantage in some way, then the Floor Judge should investigate for cheating.  
 
If a player ever repeats this infraction within the same event, then that player should be 
immediately Disqualified.  
 
The following table provides a quick glance at common types of deck and list errors and what 
sort of penalty should be issued in response to each as well as how the error should be corrected. 24 
 Regardless of the penalty issued , the player must immediately correct the list error  as 
appropriate for the specific situation (explained in the “resolution” column of the table below). 
Any corrections made to a deck or deck list should be made under the careful supervision 
of a Floor Judge or other leader .   
 
Table: Deck and Deck List Errors  
Error  Resolution  Time of Discovery  Penalty Issued  
Both the deck and the 
deck list are legal, but do 
not match each other.  The deck must be 
corrected to match the 
list. Before the start of round 1  Warning Penalty  
In between rounds  Escalated Penalty, Game 
Loss for next round  
During a round  Escalated Penalty, Game  
Loss  
The deck list is illegal, 
but the deck itself is legal.  The list must be corrected 
to match the deck.  Before the start of round 1  Warning Penalty  
In between rounds  Escalated Penalty, Game 
Loss for next round  
During a round  Escalated Penalty, Game  
Loss  
The deck list is legal, but 
the deck itself is illegal .  The deck must be 
corrected to match the 
list. Before the start of round 1  Warning Penalty  
In between rounds  Escalated Penalty, Game 
Loss for next round  
During a round  Escalated Penalty, Game  
Loss  
Both the deck list and the 
deck itself are illegal.  Player must create a legal 
deck  list and then match 
the deck to it , then have 
both checked and 
approved by a Floor 
judge.  Before the start of round 1  
 Escalated Penalty. Also, a 
Match Loss for the first 
round.  
The player is 
Disqualified.  In between rounds  Disqualification  
During a round  Disqualification  
 
3.4 Marked Cards – Escalated Penalty  
All objects eventually become affected by wear and tear, and cards and sleeves are no exception. 
Over the course of a tournament or several tournaments, a sleeve for a card may become marked 
in a way that would allow the player to distinguish it from the others in their deck. If a Floor 
Judge notices this, they should perform a deck check for that player’s deck, then, if the marked 
cards seem unintentional, the Floor Judge should ask the player to change the sleeve so that it 
better matches the other cards in its deck.  If it is clear that the player was not intending to take 
advantage of this (or may have not even noticed the mark), then a Warning Penalty is sufficient. 
The Floor Judge should make sure the player understands the importance of maintaining the 
integrity of their sleeves.  
 
If, at a Casual -tier event, a card in an unsleeved deck is distinctively marked in some way, then 
the Floor Judge can issue a warning and ask the player to either replace the card with an 
unmarked copy of the same card or use opaque sleeves that will obscu re the mark from view.  
 25 
 Players are responsible for maintaining the quality of their game materials, and if a Floor Judge 
believes a player may be intentionally using marked cards or sleeves to gain an advantage, they 
should investigate for cheating.  
 
If a Floor Judge deems it necessary, they may create proxies if a card or cards become 
marked/damaged over the course of an event. For more information about how this is done, 
please refer to the game’s Tournament Regulations.  
 
3.5 Card Manipulation Errors  – Escalated Penalty  
Mistakes happen, and sometimes a player grabs one too many cards while drawing , 
absentmindedly draws a card when not allowed to do so , or reveals the wrong number of  cards 
while resolving a game effect . This section address es disruptions involved when a player 
accidentally  draws extra cards , reveals extra cards , or otherwise unintentionally damages the 
integrity of the game when manipulating cards, decks, or other card -related aspects of the game 
area (hereafter referred to as “card errors”) . If the Floor Judge has reason to believe that a card 
error  was intentional, they should investigate for cheating.  
 
The Judge must thoroughly investigate the game state and what sequence of events happened 
before the card error occurred. Any action or effect that affected the deck (or other  card pile) 
should be mentally tracked as much as humanly possible. Once the investigation is complete, the 
Judge should perform whatever actions are necessary to fix the issue, with the goal of leaving no 
clear advantage to the player who performed the mistake , and let the game continue as it should 
have before the card error occurred. After reaching a resolution, the Floor Judge issues the player 
who performed the card error an Escalated Penalty.  
 
As a reminder, the random portion of the deck  is made up of all the cards in the deck that are still 
unknown to both players. Any card that has been legally placed at a specific position within the 
deck (such as the top or bottom) or was legally known to be at a specific position (such as a card 
revealed by an ability) does not belong to the random portion of the deck. The Judge should 
make sure those cards remain where they are supposed to be once the resolution is complete.  
 
Example 1:  Player A is supposed to draw 2 cards and accidentally draws 3.  
 
In this situation, the Judge must first investigate whether any of the drawn cards were known 
information to the player (for example, they previously used an ability to look at the top X cards 
of their deck). If all of the cards were known, then the Judge returns the extra card back to its 
original position in the deck. If any of the cards were not known information, then the Judge 
should identify the extra card as best they can and reshuffle it back into the random portion of the 
deck. If the extra card cannot be identified, then the Judge must pick a card at random from 
Player A’s hand, excluding any card that is known information to both players (such as a card 
that was returned to Player A’s hand from play by an in -game effect). The random ly-chosen card 
is shuffled back into the random portion of the deck. After resolving this issue, the Judge then 
issues Player A an Escalated Penalty.  26 
  
Note:  Whenever a Judge shuffles a card back into the random portion of a deck, this does not 
count as an in -game shuffle for any abilities or effects that may trigger off of such.  
 
Example 2: Player A triggers an ability that allows them to look at the top 2 cards of their deck. 
However, they accidentally look at the top 3 cards of their deck.  
 
In this situation, the Judge should investigate if the cards that were seen were all or partially 
already known information to the player who made the mistake. The known cards should stay 
where they were supposed to be before the mistake (i.e. within the top 2 cards of the deck). The 
other cards should be reshuffled within the random portion of the deck. The Judge then issues 
Player A an Escalated Penalty.  
 
Example 3: Player A has a hand of 2 cards and, after briefly setting their hand aside, 
accidentally picks up some other cards that they had placed face -down as part of gameplay, 
mistaking it for their hand.  
 
In this situation, the Judge should investigate to make sure that all cards involved in this incident 
can be identified , and also identify the status (ready or exhausted) that the face -down cards were 
in before they were picked up. If everything can be properly identified, the Judge should simply 
swap the cards back into their original positions and status and allow the player to reclaim their 
hand  and keep playing . If the involved cards cannot be identified, then the game has been 
irreparably compromised, and Player A  should be given a Game Loss and an Escalated Penalty. 
If the cards can be properly identified, but the status of the face -down cards (whether they were 
ready or exhausted) cannot be determined, then the Judge should set those cards as exhausted 
and Player A should receive an Escalated Penalty.  
 
3.6 Slow Play – Escalated Penalty  
Even at Casual -tier events, players are expected to play at a pace that will not set their opponent 
at a disadvantage because of the time limit. Slow play is an issue that arises when a player takes 
more time than necessary to perform one or more game actions. There can be a very fine line 
between slow play, which is unintentional, and stalling, which is a form of cheating.  Players 
should openly communicate if they believe their opponent is playing too slowly —oftentimes a 
simple “I need you to play more qui ckly” from a Floor Judge is all that is needed to remedy the 
situation.  
 
Typically, a player should not need more than an average of 10 to 15 seconds  (20 to 25 seconds 
in a Casual event)  per game action.  In this context , a “game action” is any single action 
performed during gameplay, such as playing a card or triggering an ability.  The occasional longer 
turn is not slow play, but if a player is consistently taking longer to make a decision , especially 
when there are few legal actions they can take,  then that is considered slow play.  
 27 
 Once a Floor Judge has witness ed the slow play , they can issue the “play more quickly” reminder 
alongside a n Escalated  Penalty. If the player continues to play slowly even after being asked to 
speed up by the Floor Judge, then the Judge should issue another penalty, increasing the severity 
with each repeated offense (Severe Penalty on the second offense , Extreme Penalty on the third) . 
Repeated offenses, especially after receiving warnings and penalties, can also warrant a Game 
Loss if the Floor Judge thinks it is appropriate.  
 
If a Floor Judge believes that a player is intentionally stalling to take advantage of the time limit, 
then this is a form of cheating  and should be dealt with as such.  
 
3.7 Hygiene – Varies  
Organized Play events are public events, therefore they come with expectations that all 
participants follow a standard of hygiene. Basic polite practices such as washing one’s hands 
after using the restroom or covering one’s mouth while coughing/sneezing s hould come as no 
surprise. In terms of general hygiene, it is a player’s responsibility to take care of themselves so 
that they do not disrupt the event at large. If a player chooses not to take care of themselves and 
thus sours the experience for other at tendees, the leaders of the event may ask the player to 
correct this behavior. If the player refuses, then a penalty may be issued at the leader’s discretion.  
 
Generally, hygiene -related disruptions can fall under the following categories:  
• Excessive Body Odor  – Players are not expected to smell like a bed of roses. However, if 
a player’s body odor is intense enough to distract their opponent or any of their 
neighbors, then a leader may ask them to apply some deodorant or perform a similar 
corrective measure. F ailure to cooperate with this expectation can result in a  Warning or 
Escalated Penalty , depending on the severity of the stink . 
• Illness – In the interest of keeping everyone healthy, players should avoid coughing or 
sneezing on other people or their game components. Wearing a mask or at the very least 
covering one’s mouth when coughing/sneezing is not only courteous, but also expected of 
every event attendee who is even a little sick. If a player is contagious or very clearly 
unwell, then they should not attend. Failure to cooperate with these expectations can 
result in a n Escalated or Severe Penalty , depending on the offense .  
• Open Wounds/Sores  – Basic health concerns dictate that if any event attendee has an open 
wound or sore on an exposed part of their body (such as their arm or face), that person 
should take care to cover that wound/sore before attending the event. Failure to cooperate 
with this expectation can result in a Severe Penalty . 
• Unwashed Hands/Bodies  – Public gaming events often involve a lot of people sharing a 
limited space. Because of this, it is a player’s responsibility to keep themselves and their 
playing area relatively clean as a courtesy to other event participants. Players should take 
care t o wash their hands before each round of the tournament when possible. If a player 
leaves behind a noticeable amount of sweat, hair, or other bodily residue in their playing 
space or on another player’s components, it is that player’s responsibility to clea n the 
mess as quickly and thoroughly as possible. Failure to cooperate with this expectation can 
result in a Severe Penalty . 28 
  
3.8 Unsporting Conduct – Varies  
Unsporting conduct occurs when a person behaves poorly toward another person at the event, 
seeks to gain advantage in the game by intentionally exploiting a factor that is external to the 
game or event, or cheats while playing in some way. Unsporting condu ct directly violates FFG’s 
goal for Organized Play events, and thus will not be tolerated , regardless if the event is Casual - 
or Competitive -tier.   
 
3.8-A. Basic Expectations  
All people who attend a Fantasy Flight Games Organized Play event are held to the same basic 
behavioral expectations, regardless of background, experience with the game, or influence within 
the community. It does not matter if the person is a player, a spe ctator, or a leader; everyone who 
attends an Organized Play event in any form is responsible for maintaining basic human decency 
and treating everyone around them with politeness and respect.   
 
Failure or refusal to adhere to these basic expectations can warrant a penalty for the offending 
person, at the leaders’ discretion.  
 
3.8-B. Minor Unsporting Conduct: Inappropriate Behavior  
This kind of unsporting conduct involves actions that make other event attendees —be they 
players, spectators, or leaders —uncomfortable around the person committing the act. It is mostly 
up to a Judge’s discretion on which acts could be classified as “minor ” conduct violations; as a 
general rule, any situation that causes social discomfort in the moment could be considered a 
minor disruption. The typical penalty for minor unsporting conduct is a Severe Penalty , but a 
Head Judge may upgrade it to an Extreme  Penalty  at a Floor Judge’s request if they deem it 
appropriate. A reminder: only the Head Judge is authorized to Disqualify a player from an 
event , and only the Event Organizer can  have them removed from the premises.  If a Floor 
Judge believes a player should be removed from an event, they must recommend that player for 
Disqualification to the Head Judge.  
 
Any incidents that could significantly sully or even ruin an attendee’s experience for that event 
are considered more severe than what falls under this category.  
 
The following are some examples of inappropriate behavior that fall under minor unsporting 
conduct:  
1. A player uses vulgar or profane language or makes profane or offensive gestures toward 
another person.  
2. A player inappropriately demands that a Floor Judge issue a penalty to their opponent.  
3. A player requests outside assistance from a spectator , or a spectator provides unsolicited 
outside assistance  for a player . 
4. A player insults another person , be they another player, a spectator, or a leader.  
5. A player fails to follow the instructions of a Floor Judge, Head Judge, or Event Organizer.  29 
 6. A player leaves excessive trash at the table or play area after getting up and leaving.  
7. A player stomps around, throws their deck onto the ground, or performs other frustrated 
outbursts after losing a game. If a player begins to act too aggressively, this is a more 
serious disruption (see 3.8-D. Aggressive Behavior).  
8. A player celebrates a victory loudly and excessively beyond what could be deemed 
appropriate or is rude and condescending toward the player they defeated (“rubbing it in,” 
for example).  
9. A person attending the event is wearing offensive clothing or has offensive images on 
their game materials, such as a game mat. The player must remove or cover up the 
offensive imagery or risk an upgrade to their penalty. “Offensive” in this context is:  
a. Anything that could be deemed as racist, sexist, or discriminatory in any way.  
b. Graphically violent/gory imagery.  
c. Sexually suggestive or explicit material.  
d. Strong language, i.e. , swear words, slurs, etc. (keep it PG!)  
 
It is possible for a misunderstanding to cause a person to feel uncomfortable . A player may 
make a comment or act in a way that offends or disturbs another person without them meaning 
to. If a Floor Judge assesses the situation and determines that the offending player did not intend 
to cause offense, and the player is genuinely  apologetic about it, that  Floor  Judge may ask the 
Head Judge to downgrade the penalty to just a n Escalated Penalty  at their discretion. However, if 
the same player commits a second offense of this nature later during the event, then that player 
should be immediately Disqualified. It is important that the Floor Judge clearly communicate this 
with the player and, if necessary, edu cate the player to make sure they understand what was 
wrong about their behavior.  
 
3.8-C. Major Unsporting Conduct: Harassment  
This kind of unsporting conduct involves actions of malicious intent or great inconsideration that 
could ruin another person’s experience or cause them to want to leave the event. Harassment of 
any form is absolutely not allowed at FFG Organized Play events  and will be dealt with 
severely. Harassment can include (but is not limited to) any language or behavior that is hostile, 
threatening, demeaning, solicitous, or objectifying.   
 
To make a person feel uncomfortable, unsafe, or unwelcome at an event directly goes 
against FFG’s goal for Organized Play events . Players who harass another person even once 
will receive an immediate Disqualification . A player who continues to harass someone or 
commits a particularly severe offense should be removed from the event space.  
 
The following are some examples of harassment -related behavior that fall under major 
unsporting conduct:  
1. A person uses a racial slur or other derogatory term or phrase against another person.  
2. A person takes inappropriate photos of another person without express consent.  
3. A person makes unwanted romantic or sexual advances on another person and does not 
stop when denied.  30 
 4. A person purposefully gets in the way of another person with the intent of causing 
physical contact.  
5. A person intentionally touches another person in an unwanted or threatening way (i.e. , 
grabbing their shoulders or shirt, touching their head or face, slapping their rear, etc.) . 
6. A person bullies another person through social media or manipulative language.  
 
3.8-D. Aggressive Behavior  
An FFG Organized Play event is meant to be a safe place where players can enjoy their game 
without worry. Any person —be they player, spectator, or leader —that disrupts this sense of 
safety with aggressive or violent behavior will not be tolerated. The Event  Organizer may deny 
entry to a player who exhibits this behavior or have such a player removed from the venue as 
necessary.  
 
The following are some examples of aggressive behavior:  
1. A person moves to strike another person or verbally threatens to do so.  
2. A person pulls a chair out from under another person, causing them to fall to the ground.  
3. A person throws game components or other objects in frustration or anger.  
4. A person intentionally overturns a table.  
5. A person begins shouting at another person in anger.  
6. A person brings a weapon to the event or threatens to bring one.  
 
None of this or like behavior will be tolerated in any capacity. If a player acts aggressively in any 
fashion, the Head Judge  should immediately Disqualify  them. Then, it is recommended that the 
offending person be removed from  the venue  by the Event Organizer . At the end of the event, the 
disqualified player and the incident in question should be reported to FFG OP.  
 
3.8-E. Bribery and Collusion  
Players come to Organized Play events with the intent to enjoy themselves playing a game they 
love while competing against others in a welcoming environment. Bribery and collusion can 
violate the integrity of this environment by putting more emphasis on ma nipulating the system 
than actually playing the game, which is not the kind of event that FFG wants to promote.   
 
Bribery  involves a player offering some form of reward or incentive to their opponent in order 
to convince them to concede, draw, or even alter the results of a game. A bribe can come in any 
form that the opponent finds desirable, whether it be money, promotional material, prizes, or 
even personal favors. Bribery in any form, involving anyone at an FF G Organized Play event, is 
strictly forbidden and warrants a Disqualification  from the Head Judge  for the player offering 
the bribe. If the opponent accepts the bribe, they are also guilty of this disruption and should 
suffer the same penalty.  
 
Collusion  occurs whenever two or more players discuss an outcome for their game before the 
game’s conclusion and then artificially or randomly determine the results of the game based on 
that discussion. Collusion can take place at any time, even between tournament rounds, and is 31 
 never tolerated. Collusion violates the integrity of a tournament as a whole by invalidating the 
efforts of those who earned their place in the standings purely through the skill of their gameplay. 
This can drastically decrease the enjoyability of the even t as a whole, and thus collusion warrants 
a Disqualification for each player involved.   
 
Note: The act of dividing up prizes between one or more players —often referred to as 
“prize splitting” —is considered a form of collusion and therefore is not acceptable at any 
level of Organized Play event.  
 
Please note that concession, in and of itself, is not collusion . Players are allowed to concede a 
game at any time before the end of the game , so long as there was no discussion or solicitation 
involved. However, convincing or manipulating an opponent to concede in order to give any 
person a distinct advantage is dishonest and is considered a form of cheating. Asking an 
opponent to concede in a ny shape or form falls under collusion and is grounds for 
Disqualification . 
 
The following are some examples of collusion:  
1. A player offers to concede to their opponent in return for some of the prizes their 
opponent will win.  
a. This is also a form of bribery.  
2. Two players realize that they both will make the top cut regardless of who wins. After 
discussing it with each other, they decide to randomly determine the outcome of their 
game rather than play it out.  
a. As soon as there is discussion, the integrity of the game has been lost. If players 
do not want to play the game, then one of them should concede.  
3. Player A and Player B are friends. Player A is already going to advance to the top cut, 
but Player B needs one more win to do so. After discussing it with each other, Player A 
offers to concede so that Player B can also advance, and Player B agrees.  
a. As soon as there is discussion, the integrity of the game has been lost. Player A is 
allowed to concede the game at any time, but should do so without  soliciting the 
concession.  
 
For the purpose of determining collusion, a “discussion” is when the involved players negotiate 
and agree upon an outcome of some sort. It is largely up to a Judge’s interpretation whether or 
not a particular conversation between players is a discussion le ading to collusion.  
 
Note: If one player attempts collude with another player  and the other player refuses , this is 
“attempted collusion .” The player who attempted to collude receives an Escalated Penalty, 
while the player who refused receives no penalty.  
 
3.8-F. Stalling  32 
 Stalling occurs when a player intentionally  plays slowly  in order to exploit an advantage they 
could gain from the time limit. If a player is unintentionally playing slowly , this falls under the 
3.6 Slow Play section.  
 
To determine whether a player is actively stalling, consider the following:  
• The player takes an extremely long time to perform  each game action (1 minute or 
longer) , even when there are few  actions they can legally perform  in the current game 
state.  
o Remember , a “game action” is any single gameplay -related action , such as 
playing a card or triggering an ability.  
• The player continues to play slowly even after receiving a slow play penalty and 
instructions from a Floor Judge to speed up . 
• A player is playing at a normal pace, then suddenly slows down when they realize the 
tournament round is nearing the time limit.  
• A player repeatedly asks for updates on public information  (such as how many cards are 
left in their opponent’s deck)  within a short period of time.  
 
Stalling is a form of cheating, and  thus warrants the same level of penalty. If a Floor Judge can 
confirm that a player is stalling, then th ey should inform the Head Judge, who should Disqualify  
the offending player.  
 
3.8-G. Vandalism and Theft  
Just as people come to FFG Organized Play events with the expectation of their personal safety, 
they also come expecting their belongings to remain safe as well. FFG will not tolerate the 
destruction or theft of other people’s belongings at FFG Organized Pl ay events. If a person 
destroys or renders unusable any items  belonging to another person, the offending person should  
be asked to leave the venue immediately. If that person was a player, the Head Judge  should also 
immediately Disqualify  that player from  the event.   
 
If a person is discovered to have stolen any items belonging to another person, they should  be 
asked to return the belongings to their original owner, then they should  be asked to leave the 
event venue.  If that person was a player, the Head Judge  should also immediately Disqualify  that 
player from the event.   
 
3.8-H. Cheating  
If a player attempts to gain advantage in the tournament by intentionally breaking a rule, lying to 
tournament leaders, intentionally altering or misreporting match results, or somehow abusing any 
other part of the system for their own benefit, they are gu ilty of cheating. Players attend FFG 
Organized Play events in order to enjoy playing the games they love with like -minded 
individuals. There are few things that can ruin an event more than  someone reaching  a high 
position through exploitation and dishonest y.   
 33 
 If a Floor  Judge verifies that a player is cheating or has cheated, then the Floor Judge must 
immediately report it to the Head Judge . The Head Judge must then Disqualify the 
offending player in order to preserve the integrity of the tournament and the other players. At 
the end of the event, the cheating player and how they cheated should be reported to FFG OP.  
 
Note: As a general rule, in order for a player to be confirmed as cheating, two criteria must 
be met : first, the player must either be gaining an advantage or putting someone else at a 
disadvantage; second, the person must be aware that what they are doing is against the rules. If 
both of these criteria are not met, then the disruption might fall under a  different category and 
should be addressed as such. That said, each instance is largely up to the Head Judge’s  
interpretation and judgment . If a leader is uncertain whether or not a player is cheating or has 
cheated, then they should consult with another leader about what action to take.  
 
4. Time Extensions  
Whenever a disruption occurs —regardless if it is a Gameplay Disruption , an Event Disruption , 
or even just a routine deck check —the subsequent Judge involvement  can take time away from 
the players to complete their match. Because of this,  the Judge(s) resolving the issue should 
bestow a time extension  to the players , with the exact form of extension depending on the 
situation at hand:  
 
Gameplay Disruptions  – All Gameplay Disruptions should be given a 1 -to-1 time extension , 
rounded up to the nearest minute.  
 
Event Disruptions  – Only the following Event Disruptions warrant a time extension : 
• Tardiness  
o If a player arrives within 1 to 5 minutes late and a Game Loss has not been given, 
the match should be given a 1 -to-1 time extension, rounded up to the nearest 
minute.  
o If a player arrives within 6 to 10 minutes late and a Game Loss has been given, 
for game 1, the match  should be given a 1 -to-1 time extension , rounded up to the 
nearest minute.  
• Slow Play  
o If a player earns a penalty for unintentional slow play, the match should be given 
a 1-to-1 time extension, rounded up to the nearest minute.  
o Reminder : Intentional slow play is considered stalling, which is a form of 
cheating. As such, the offending player should be Disqualified, and thus the match 
does not warrant a time extension.  
 
Deck Checks  – Whenever a Judge performs a deck check, the match should be given a 1 -to-1 
time extension (rounded up to the nearest minute), plus an additional 3 minutes to allow players 
to set up for their game.  
  34 
 Appendix: Warning Guidelines  
Infraction  Penalty  Things to Keep in Mind  
Gameplay Disruptions  
Flagged Gameplay Error  
A player indicates a gameplay 
mistake was made by their 
opponent , and it only takes the 
judge a minute or two to correct the 
error.  Tracking Penalty  
(0 penalty points – 
see right)  This is mainly to be used as a tracking system. It is 
up to the Judge to determine if this is malicious 
behavior.  
Minor Gameplay Error  
A simple, honest gameplay mistake 
was made, and it only takes the 
judge a minute or two to identify 
and correct the error . Warning Penalty  
(1 penalty point)  If the player keeps making these mistakes, then 
issuing Escalated Warnings  is appropriate.  
If a ruling for this level of penalty takes more than 
3 minutes to correct the error, consider escalating 
the penalty points to an Escalated Penalty point 
value.  
Intermediate Gameplay Error  
A larger gameplay mistake or 
multiple smaller mistakes were 
made, and it takes the judge a 
decent amount of time to correct the 
error, possibly necessitating a time 
extension for the game . Escalated Penalty  
(2 penalty points)  If a ruling for this level of penalty takes more than 
5 minutes to correct  the error, consider escalating 
the penalty points to a Severe Penalty point value.  
Significant Gameplay Error  
A significant, possibly long -lasting 
gameplay mistake or several larger 
mistakes were made, and it takes 
the judge a significant amount of 
time to correct the error (if they can 
at all).  Severe Penalty  
(4 penalty points)  If the integrity of the game has been irrevocably 
compromised, then the judge may want to consider 
issuing a Game Loss in addition to a Severe 
Penalty .  
Event Disruptions  
Tardiness  
A player is late to their match 
without notifying a judge 
beforehand.  Escalated Penalty  
(2 penalty points)  “Late” is defined as between 1 and 5 minutes late . 
Absence  
A player does not show up within 
reasonable time for their match.  Game/ Match Loss , 
Severe Penalty  
(4 penalty points)  If a player is 5 or more minutes  late, they are 
absent , and receive a Game Loss. If that player is 
10 minutes late, they receive a Match Loss, th ey 
receive a Severe Penalty, and are dropped from the 
tournament.  
Deck and/or  Deck  List Errors  
A player’s deck  and/or  deck  list is 
found to contain an unintentional 
error or illegality.  (see pgs. 21 and 22) The issued penalty depends on  the type of error 
and when it is discovered. Regardless of which  
penalty is issued, the player must fix the error as 
soon as it’s discovered.  
 
For information on how to fix these errors, see 
pages 21 and 22 of this document.  
Marked Cards  
A player has distinctive markings 
on one or more of their 
cards/sleeves.  Escalated Penalty  
(2 penalty points)  In addition to receiving the penalty, the player 
should replace the card/sleeves with an unmarked 
version.  
Card Manipulation Error  
A player accidentally draws more 
cards than they were supposed to , 
reveals more cards than they were 
supposed to, or otherwise  disrupts Escalated Penalty  
(2 penalty points)  In addition to issuing  the penalty, the Judge must 
also investigate and resolve the situation with the 
goal of allowing the game to continue as it should 
have before the incident when possible (see 
section 3.5 for more information).  35 
 the game through mistakes made in  
card-related aspects . Reminder: If a Judge needs to shuffle cards into a 
deck, this does not count as an in -game shuffle.  
Slow Play  
A player is unintentionally taking 
more time than necessary to 
perform one or more game actions.  Escalated Penalty   
(2 penalty points)  This infraction is in reference to unintentional  
slow play.  
Intentional  slow play (stalling) is a form of 
cheating and should be penalized as such . See 
pages 24 and 29 for more information.  
Minor Unsporting Conduct  
A player acts in a way that causes 
tension or awkwardness among 
their table and neighbors . Severe Penalty  
(4 penalty points)  Most behavioral infractions should be dealt with 
on a case -by-case basis —depending on the 
circumstances, the penalty may be upgraded to an 
Extreme Penalty or downgraded to an Escalated 
Penalty . 
Major Unsporting Conduct  
A player causes a major disturbance 
that threatens to sour the experience  
for any number of  attendees, 
necessitates a significant amount of 
judge intervention/involvement, 
and/or blatantly ruins the event for 
one or more people.  Disqualification  All forms of harassment fall under this category, 
regardless of apparent severity.  
If a player commits a particularly serious offense, 
then they should be removed from the venue in 
addition to being Disqualified . 
 
Aggressive Behavior  
A player  makes any sort of 
aggressive moves toward a nother 
person or their property at the event 
or threatens to do so.  Disqualification  Aggressive or threatening behavior will not be 
tolerated at FFG OP events. Anyone who commits 
such an offense should be Disqualified and 
removed from the venue.  
Bribery and Collusion  
A player offers another player some 
sort of reward or favor in exchange 
for altering the results of a match 
(bribery), or two or more players 
discuss an outcome of the match 
that would be favorable and then 
causing that outcome without 
playing out the game (collusion) . Disqualification  For more detailed information to define bribery 
and/or collusion and help determine if either has 
occurred, see pages 27 -29. 
Vandalism and Theft  
A player damages or steals another 
player’s belongings.  Disqualification  The vandalism or theft of other people’s 
belongings will not be tolerated at FFG OP events.  
Anyone who commits either act should be 
removed from the event venue.  
Cheating  
A player attempts to gain advantage  
in the tournament through 
dishonesty, tampering with results, 
exploitation, or intentional rule -
breaking.  Disqualification  A player is cheating if their actions are intentional , 
and they can gain an unfair advantage  through 
them. Things like unwitting slow play or 
accidentally drawing an extra card are not 
cheating —doing those things a second time after 
being given a penalty , however, very well could be 
cheating.  
Repeated Infraction  
A “second offense,” the player has 
committed the same infraction that 
they were penalized for earlier in 
the event and needs to receive 
another penalty.  Same penalty as 
before, but upgraded 
one step  Warning Penalties  upgrade to Escalated Penalties . 
Escalated Penalties  upgrade to Severe Penalties . 
Severe Penalties upgrade to Extreme Penalties . 
Extreme Penalties upgrade to Disqualification.  
 
During Casual -tier events, a judge may decide not 
to upgrade the penalty when a player repeats a 
minor gameplay error. The penalty for repeated 
behavioral infractions  is always  upgraded, 
regardless of event tier.  36 
 Too Many Penalty Points  
The player has 10 or more penalty 
points throughout the event.  Disqualification  Warning Penalties  are worth 1 penalty point.  
Escalated Penalties  are worth 2 penalty points.  
Severe Penalties  are worth 4 penalty points.  
Extreme Penalties are worth 8 penalty points.  
 
 