1 
 Star Wars ™: Unlimited Tournament Regulations  
v.1.3, Last Updated 3/14/2025 
Notable changes  from the previous  version are marked in blue. 
Table of contents  
1. Introduction  
2. Tournament Play 
1. Valid Unlimited  ID Number  
2. Event Tiers  
1. Casual  Tier 
2. Competitive  Tier 
3. Formats  
1. Constructed Formats  
1. Premier  
2. Twin Suns  
2. Limited Formats  
1. Draft Play  
2. Sealed Play  
3. Tournament Preparation  
1. Player Responsibilities  
1. Identification  
2. Legal Deck  
3. Legal Deck Lists  
4. Card Sleeves  
5. Damage Counters and Tokens  
6. Note Taking  
2. Legality  
1. Cards  
2. Sleeves  
3. Game Mats  
4. Regarding Materials in Other Languages  
4. Tournament Concepts  
1. Round Types  
1. Swiss Rounds  
2. Single Elimination  
2. Single Game  Matches  
1. Round Time 
2. Single Game Match Resolution  
3. Best-of-Three Matches  
1. Round Time 
2. Best-of-Three Match Resolution  
4. Intentional Draws  
5. Number of Rounds  
6. Regarding Deck Lists  
1. Deck List Review  
2. Sideboards and Deck Changes  
5. Tournament Play 2 
 1. Randomizers  
2. Game State  
3. Public Knowledge  
4. Private Knowledge  
5. Sufficient Randomization  
6. Tiebreakers  
1. Calculating Match -Win and Game -Win Percentages  
1. Calculating Opponents’ Match -Win Percentage (OMW)  
2. Calculating Player’s Game -Win Percentage (PGW)  
3. Calculating Opponents’ Game -Win Percentage (OGW)  
7. Reporting Match Results  
6. Deck Checks  
1. Marked Cards  
2. Judge Prox ies 
3. Counterfeit cards  
7. Logistics  
1. Publishing Tournament Information  
2. Reporting Tournament Results  
  3 
 1. Introduction  
With efforts to ensure all Star Wars ™: Unlimited events are run consistently, this document is in 
place to provide regulations that all Event Organizers, Judges, Event Staff , Players, and 
Spectators are required to adhere to at all official tournaments.  
Each participant at a Star Wars : Unlimited tournament is expected to have read and understand  
this document and the documents listed below, as well as adhere to the regulations within.   
Use the table below to ensure you have the most up to date version of this document, along with 
all other documents used in conjunction with this document for Star Wars : Unlimited events :  
Star Wars : Unlimited Tournament 
Regulations (this document)  https://starwarsunlimited.com/organized -play   
Star Wars: Unlimited Comprehensive Rules  https://starwarsunlimited.com/how -to-
play?chapter=rules   
Fantasy Flight Games Master Event 
Document  https://starwarsunlimited.com/organized -play    
  
2. Tournament Play  
2.1 Valid Unlimited  ID Number  
Star Wars : Unlimited identification and player rankings will be tied to Unlimited  Identification 
Numbers ( UID). You must register for a UID at StarWarsUnlimited .com in order to participate 
in official  Star Wars : Unlimited events. Information on  how to register for a UID can be found 
here. It is each player’s responsibility to provide their UID at all official events. An individual 
person’s UID belongs to that person  alone and may not be used by anyone els e for any reason.   
*Note:  Your UID is directly linked to your AsmoConnect  account. If you already have an 
AsmoConnect  account , please follow the steps  found here to log into your Star Wars : Unlimited 
account.  
Each user is responsible for ensuring their UID information is kept up to date. This includes, but 
is not limited to, name, contact information , and reviewing tournament history for accurately 
reported results. If you have any additional questions or concerns regarding your UID, please 
reach out to StarWarsUnlimited@fantasyflightgames.com .  
2.2 Event Tiers  
2.2.1 Casual  Tier 
Casual -tier events are low-stakes , accessible events that anyone interested in Organized Play can 
participate in. The following events are considered Casual -tier events:  
• Prerelease  Events  
• Weekly Play  
• Store Showdown s 
• Side events at larger tournaments  4 
 While the Prerelease and Store Showdown events have tournaments tied to them, they are 
introductory events into the Star Wars:  Unlimited trading card game and should be treated as 
such. The focus of all Casual events is on providing a fun and friendly environment  where new 
players can learn and enjoy the game alongside longtime veterans.   
While Judges should enforce rulings and assess penalties for player mistakes and other 
infractions, they should also use these events as a way to  educate players and provide a forum to 
learn appropriate gameplay  habits . Note that official Judges are not mandatory for Casual -tier 
events (they are mandatory for Competitive -tier events).  
Store Showdown  event s will be held using the Premier  rules set forth in 2.3.1  Constructed 
Formats . Prerelease Events  will use the sealed  play rules set forth in 2.3.2  Limited Formats .  
Note: Even though there is a single and universal set of rules for the Premier format, we want to 
encourage Event Organizers and Judges who are hosting a Casual event to curate their event to 
the specific needs of their community of players. This includes the rules, penalties, prize 
distribution, tournament type and structure, etc. The needs and enjoyment of the players must be 
at the heart of any deviation from the standard Premier format.  
2.2.2 Competitive  Tier 
Unlike the Casual Tier  of events, Competitive -tier events are designed for players with at least an 
intermediate  understanding of Star Wars:  Unlimited rules and gameplay . At this tier of event s, 
players will always bring a constructed , tournament -legal deck. (See 3.3 Legality .) These events 
will offer tournament points for top-placing participants along with additional prizing depending 
on the event. The following events are considered Competitive -tier events:  
• Planetary Qualifier s 
• Sector Qualifier s 
• Regional Qualifiers  
• Galactic Championship  
All Qualifier events are open to the public and do not require an invitation to participate. The 
Galactic Championship is an invitation -only event where participants who have earned enough 
tournament points  throughout the Organized Play “season”  will have the opportunity to 
challenge other top players from  around the world and compete to earn the title of Galactic 
Champion.  
2.3 Formats  
There are several different formats that players can participate in , divide d into two primary 
categories: constructed formats  and limited formats . While all Competitive -tier events will 
utilize the Premier constructed format , there are rules and regulations for the other formats to 
ensure fun and fair gameplay  for all participants.  
2.3.1 Constructed  Formats  
There are two constructed formats: Premier  and Twin Suns . For events that utilize these 
formats, each player must build their deck ahead of time and bring it to use during play.  Each 5 
 constructed format has slightly different deckbuilding rules, described in their respective section 
below.  
2.3.1.1 Premier  
The Premier format is the standard format for all Competitive -tier Star Wars : Unlimited events. 
A legal Premier deck consist s of the following:   
• Exactly 1 leader and exactly 1 base  
• A minimum 50 -card draw deck  
• A sideboard of up to 10 cards  (Note: leaders and bases cannot be included in the 
sideboard)  
• All cards must be from sets designated  as “Premier -legal,” which  currently is  any 
officially -released set . 
Between the draw deck and sideboard, there can be no more than three (3) copies of any card . 
For this purpose, a “copy” is any  card that shares a title and subtitle with another card, regardless 
if they have different art , foiling,  or graphic design elements.  
2.3.1.2 Twin Suns  
The Twin Suns  format utilizes the multiplayer rules found  in Sections 11 and 12  of the Star 
Wars : Unlimited Comprehensive Rules . A legal Twin Suns  deck consists of the following:  
• Exactly 2 leaders, both of which must share either the Heroi sm (white) or Villain y 
(black)  aspect  
• Exactly 1 base  
• A minimum 50 -card draw deck  
o Note : after the game’s fourth set is released , the minimum deck size for the Twin 
Suns  format will increase  to 80 cards . 
• Sideboards are not permitted at Twin Suns  events . 
For Twin Suns  events, a draw deck cannot have more than one copy of any card .  
2.3.2 Limited  Formats  
There are two limited formats:  draft  play and sealed  play. For these formats , deck construction 
takes  place at the beginning of the event. Players may not come with a prebuilt deck for these 
events. Players build their decks at the beginning of the event using  product handed out by the 
Event Organizer . For both limited formats , deck building rules are as follows :  
• Exactly 1 leader  and exactly 1 base   
• A minimum 30 -card draw deck  
• All additional cards received and not included in the draw deck are considered part of a 
player’s sideboard  (except for leaders and bases, which cannot be included in the 
sideboard)  
Players have 30 minutes to build their deck.  Players may include as many copies of any card they 
like, as long as all copies of the card were opened  from product  provided by the Event Organizer 
for that specific event . 6 
 Note : When playing in a limited format, players are permitted to change the construction of their 
deck at any time in between games.  
2.3.2.1 Draft  Play  
While no specific event uses the draft play format, this is a popular  Casual -tier format that Event 
Organizers  may use for players  to interact with the game.  During a draft event, players sit around 
a table as a group . (8 players per group is recommended. The Event Organizer can choose to 
make the group smaller or larger as needed.) Each player opens three booster packs * and takes 
out the leader cards, keeping the remaining cards of each pack in their separate stacks without 
looking at them .  
Each player chooses one of their three leaders to keep and passes the other two to the right . 
Then, each player chooses one of the two leaders that was just passed to them and passes the 
other to the right.  After this point, each player should have three leader cards; one that they 
started with, and two that were passed to them by other players.   
  
Next, each player chooses one of the booster packs that they opened. The common base/token 
card from that pack is placed in a pile at the center of the table, and then each player chooses one 
card to keep from the pack before passing the other cards to the  player on their left. They then 
draft their next card from the cards they received from the player on their right.    
  
This continues until all cards from the first booster pack have been drafted. Then, the process 
repeats for the second booster pack, except this time players pass cards to the right .   
  
After all the cards from the second booster pack have been drafted, the process is repeated one 
more time with the third pack, once again passing cards to the left.  
Before  choosing their first card from a pack, players have three  minutes to review their pack in 
its entirety and make their selection. All other picks after the first should be made within 45 
seconds  each. Players can review what they have already drafted in between picks, but should be 
mindful not take too much time when doing so.  
When drafting, players should be mindful of how many cards are in each pack they look at and 
how many cards they pass to the next player. This ensures that all players receive the appropriate 
number of cards in each pack.  
When drafting, players should follow a “three zone” system. Only one pack of cards should ever 
be in each of these zones: Zone One is the pack in a player’s hand that they are currently picking 
from; Zone Two is the pack that they are passing to the next player; and Zone Three is the next 
pack of cards being passed to them.  
All players must follow the deckbuilding  guidelines for this event set forth in 2.3.2  Limited 
Formats  above .   
While players are limited to using a leader acquired from one of their packs, they may  use any 
common base they wish when constructing their deck.  
Players are not permitted to trade cards they have drafted or use cards from outside their drafted 
cards when building their deck.  7 
 *Note: Booster packs being used for draft play are not owned by any individual player. A card is 
owned by a player once that player picks the card from their current pack or a selection of 
leaders.  
2.3.2.2 Sealed  Play  
Prerelease Events utilize  the sealed  play format.  It is also a commonly used format for Weekl y 
Play events.  
During a sealed event , each player receive s six booster packs. Players open all six of their 
booster packs and use only the cards obtained in those six booster packs to build their deck.  
All players must follow the deck building guidelines for this event set forth in 2.3.2  Limited  
Formats  above .   
While players are limited to using a leader acquired from one of their packs *, players are able to 
use any common base they wish when constructing their deck.  
*Note: For Prerelease Events  specifically , players can also choose to use one of the promo leader 
cards  they acquired from their Prerelease Box . 
Players are not permitted to trade cards they acquired from their packs  or use cards from outside 
their acquired cards when building their deck.  
 
3. Tournament Preparation  
When attending a Star Wars:  Unlimited event, there are several steps all attendees should take to 
ensure they comply with this document. The following sections will outline what is required 
from each type of attendee.  
3.1 Player Responsibilities  
3.1.1 Identification  
Players are expected to be able to provide photo identification when registering for all 
Competitive -tier events when requested by event leaders. Valid forms of identification are 
driver’s licenses, state ID cards, passports, school ID cards , and birth certificates (for minors 
without another valid form of ID). Each player is required to have the name linked with their 
UID match the name on their valid photo identification. If a player is undergoing a name change 
that is not yet reflected on their valid form of ID , that player  should reach out to the Event 
Organizer  prior to  the beginning of  the event.  
Players who are less than 16 years old must present their ID while accompanied by  a legal 
guardian in order to register for  an event.  The guardian must also present their own  valid form of 
ID during the player’s registration . 
3.1.2 Legal Deck  8 
 For events utilizing  a constructed format , it is each player’s responsibility to come to the event 
prepared with a legal deck following the guidelines laid out in 2.3.1  Constructed Formats  and 
3.2 Legality .  
For events utilizing a limited format , players are required to follow the rules in deck construction 
set forth in 2.3.2  Limited Formats .  
3.1.3 Legal Deck Lists  
It is each player’s responsibility to provide two identical,  legal deck lists when playing in a 
Competitive -tier even t. A legal deck list consists of the following elements : 
• Player first and last name  
• Player UID 
• Leader  
• Base  
• Draw deck and sideboard  composition  
Players are required to submit one deck list to the Event Organizer  prior to the start of the event. 
The second deck list is provided to the player’s opponent for review at the beginning of each 
match  during the top cut elimination rounds  (see 4.4.1 Deck List Review  for more information) .  
At Casual -tier events, deck lists are not required.  
3.1.4 Card Sleeves  
Card sleeves are mandatory  for a player’s draw deck  when playing in Competitive -tier events. 
All card sleeves must be the  same size and the  same color or art design for both the draw deck 
and sideboard .  
At Competitive -tier events, if a card sleeve breaks or is damaged enough to cause a marked card 
situation, it is the player’s responsibility to replace the card sleeve immediately with a sleeve that 
is identical to the rest of that player’s deck .  
At Casual -tier events, sleeves are not required but are highly encouraged. Sleeves can protect a 
player ’s cards while also lowering the possibility of having a marked card situation.  
For more information about marked cards and the associated penalty, refer to  Part 2, Section 3.4  
of the Fantasy Flight Game Master Event Document . 
3.1.5  Damage Counters and Tokens  
It is each player ’s responsibility to provide enough damage counters and tokens to support their 
side of the game . This includes, but is not limited to, damage counters for units and base, 
initiative marker, experience and shield tokens , and epic action reminder tokens. Other methods 
of tracking damage —such as using dice instead of counters —are permitted, so long as the game 
state is clear to all players at all times.  As a reminder, it is mandatory to track damage up from 0.  
3.1.6  Note Taking  9 
 At any level of event, players are allowed to take notes and refer to them while the match is in 
progress. If a player chooses to take notes during a match, there are requirements that must be 
followed:  
• Notes must be taken in a timely fashion and must not disrupt  the pace of play  
• At the beginning of each match, the player must start with a fresh sheet of paper that does 
not have any previous notes written on it  
o Any type of paper can be used for note taking, including lined or graph paper  
• At the beginning of the match, the player must show the sheet of paper to their opponent , 
who should confirm that no previous notes are written on it  
• Players are allowed to fold their note paper if desired, but the note paper must be visible 
to their opponent at all times  
• Players are not required  to reveal their notes to other players at any time  
• Players must  show and explain their notes to a Judge upon request  
• Players may not transcribe their opponent’s deck list into their notes  
• Players may not reference notes from previous matches during an unrelated match  
• Electronic devices may be used for taking notes , so long as the following conditions are 
met: 
o Messages cannot be received during the game (i.e. the device should be in 
airplane mode  or have no ability to connect to the internet ). 
o The device’s screen must stay  visible to both players for the entirety of the game.  
• For events utilizing the draft play format, players may not take notes while drafting or use 
any outside notes during the drafting process  
3.2 Legality  
3.2.1  Cards  
Star Wars:  Unlimited has new sets released on a regular basis. Cards are legal for tournament 
play the same day the set is officially released. Cards obtained in a Prerelease Event  are only 
legal for the event they were obtained in and are not legal for any other event until the set is 
officially released . Cards that have been released in a previous set that have been reprinted in a 
newer set are legal to be used, even while the rest of that set is not yet legal .  
The following sets are legal for Premier format events :  
• Spark of Rebellion  
• Shadows of the Galaxy  
• Twilight of the Republic  
Effective November 8, 2024, Boba Fett (Collecting the Bounty) is suspended from Premier.  
If an official  card has the same title and subtitle (when applicable) as a card from a Premier -legal 
set, then that card is also legal for Premier.  
Demo and beta versions of cards  (designated by a “Demo” or “Beta” label)  are not legal under 
any circumstances, even if they are identical to the final , officially -released versions of those  
cards . 10 
 Players are permitted to use cards that have been autographed  (i.e., by an FFG staff mem ber, an 
artist , a celebrity, etc. ), so long as the autograph  is on the front of the card  (or either side, if the 
card is double -sided) . If the autograph covers up any amount of text on the card, the player 
should have an additional copy of the card on hand that is unmarked for their opponent to 
reference . No other alterations are allowed , regardless if the event is Casual or Competitive.   
Examples of illegal  alterations include but are not limited to:  
• Stickers  applied to any part of the card  
• Folds or creases, intentional or otherwise  
• Custom variants with unofficial alternate art or graphic design  
• Doodles or drawings  
Altered cards are not considered legal for official Organized Play events. If a player includes an 
altered card in their deck, they must replace it with an unaltered , official  version  and are issued a 
penalty in accordance with the Marked Cards guidelines found in Part 2, Section 3.4  of the 
Fantasy Flight Games Master Event Document.  
3.2.2  Sleeves  
As previously stated, sleeves are required  for a player’s draw deck  at all Competitive -tier events 
and are highly encourage d at Casual -tier events. When using sleeves, players must follow these 
guidelines:  
• All sleeves on the draw deck  must be identical in  size, color , and art design, while also 
being opaque . 
o If the side board cards are using sleeves, they must also be identical to the rest of 
the deck.  
• All cards  in the draw deck  must be put into sleeves with an identical orientation . 
• A max imum  of one card can be in a sleeve at a time . 
• Sleeves with highly reflective backs and holographic fronts are not permitted . 
• Sleeves with graphics on the front that hinder being able to see card text are not 
permitted . 
• Sleeves with artwork are permitted .  
o However, for featured games  (i.e., during a livestream), sleeves are required to be 
either solid colors  with no artwork  or officially licensed Star Wars : Unlimited 
sleeves . 
o A Judge may, at their discretion, deem certain art sleeves to be inappropriate and 
request that the player replace them with an acceptable alternative.  
• Cards may be double - or triple -sleeved (two/three sleeves on one card) as long as the 
extra sleeves are completely clear with no additional markings on them . 
3.2.3 Game Mats  
Players are permitted to use game mats during their matches. For featured games (i.e., during a 
livestream),  game mats are required to be either solid colors with no artwork on them or 
officially licensed Star Wars : Unlimited game mats.  11 
 A Judge may, at their discretion, deem certain game mats to be inappropriate and request that a 
player use an acceptable alternative game mat instead.  
3.2.4 Regarding Materials in Other Languages  
A player’s deck can include cards in any number of languages, so long as each card is a  legal,  
official ly-released  Star Wars : Unlimited card .  
While playing a matc h, if a player  asks for clarification about the abilities of a card in a language 
they don’t understand, the original English version of that card is used as a reference.  
Whenever a Judge makes a ruling related to the effects of a card , they do so based on the original 
English version of that card.   
 
4. Tournament Concepts  
4.1 Round Types  
4.1.1 Swiss Rounds  
During each round of Swiss,  players are paired with opponents that have  the same win/loss ratio  
as much as possible while also preventing players from facing the same opponent more than 
once.  Swiss rounds can be played either as single game  matches (see 4.2 Single Game 
Matches ) or as best-of-three  matches (see 4.3 Best -of-Three Matches ).  
For the first round of Swiss, players are paired  against each other  randomly. For each round after 
the first, each player is  paired at random against another player with the same win/loss ratio as 
themsel f. 
To determine pairings, take the group of players with the highest win/loss ratio  and pair them at 
random. If there is an odd number of players in that group, pair the remaining player with a 
random player from the group with the next highest ratio . Then, pair all remaining players in the 
second group at random. Continue this  process  until all players are paired. Note:  If your event is 
utilizing Melee.gg , then the software will handle this process for you.  
At the end of Swiss rounds, player rankings  are determined by who has the highest win/loss 
ratio. If multiple players have the same win/loss ratio  at the end of Swiss rounds, player rankings  
are determined via a set of tiebreakers identified in 5.6 Tiebreakers .  
If there is an odd number of players in the tournament, a player at random receives a bye in the 
first round. This is treated as if they had won their match for that round. In later rounds, if there 
is an odd number of players remaining in the tournament, the bye is given to the lowest -ranked 
player who has not yet received a bye.  
4.1.2 Single Elimination  
Single elimination typically happens after all Swiss  rounds have finished. During a single 
elimination bracket, the winner of each round moves on to the next leg of the bracket while the 
person who did not win is eliminated from the tournament . Elimination rounds are usually used 12 
 after a progression cut to the top 4, 8, 16, 32 or 64 players and continue until only one player 
remains and is named the winner  of the tournament . During elimination rounds, players play 
best-of-three matches  (see 4.3 Best -of-Three Matches ). 
When setting  up a single elimination bracket , if the number of players is divisible by four, the 
bracket will have  the player with the highest  ranking  face off against the player with the lowest 
ranking at the end of Swiss . The second -highest player will play against the second -lowest, the 
third -highest against the third -lowest, and so on until all players are paired.  
Example : For the first round of  an 8-player bracket , the 1st place player plays  against  the 8th 
place player, the 2nd place player plays the 7th place player, the 3rd place player plays the 6th 
place player, and the 4th place player plays the 5th place player.  
If a player drops from the tournament after single elimination rounds begin, that player’s current 
opponent —or next opponent, if the player drops between rounds —receives a bye for the round.  
4.2 Single Game Matches  
Single game match play is exclusively used during Casual -tier events, depending on a store’s 
individual needs . All Prerelease Events utilize single game match play.  Store Showdown events 
can be single game match play or best -of-three  match play.  During single game rounds, players 
will play one game each round with the winner of that game winning the match. Players are not 
permitted to  use sideboards during single game match play.    
Note:  While the Twin Suns format also utilizes  single game matches , it uses  its own special rules 
regarding round time, match resolution, and number of rounds. As such, th ese sections are only 
referring to single game matches for head -to-head formats (Premier, draft play, and sealed play).  
4.2.1 Round Time  
During single game match play, players will have 25 minutes  each round  to complete their 
match.  
4.2.2 Single Game Match Resolution  
During single game match play, the first person to win the game (by destroying their opponent’s 
base) is the winner of the match. If time is called before either player has resolved the game to 
completion, players continue play until the end of the next action phase  (if the game is in the 
regroup phase when time is called, then the upcoming action phase will be the last phase played) .   
If neither player has managed to win by the end of that last action phase, then neither player has 
won the game , and the match ends in a draw .  
As a reminder, a player can concede at any  time before the end of the game.  
4.3 Best-of-Three Matches  
Best-of-three  match play is used at all Competitive -tier events. Store Showdowns can also utilize 
best-of-three matches, depending on a store’s needs. During these matches, players will  typically  
play up to three games where the winner of the match is the person who wins  two out of the three 13 
 games. Additionally, if a player has lost two out of three games, their opponent is the winner of 
the match.  
Note Regarding Initiative: At the beginning of the first  game of  a best -of-three match , 
randomly determine a player . That player choose s who starts with initiative . For each game after  
the first, the player who  lost the previous game chooses who starts with initiative.  
If a new game is about to begin after a game that had no clear winner (for example, the previous 
game ended in a draw), the player who had the initiative for the previous game decides who 
starts with initiative.  
4.3.1 Round Time  
During best-of-three  match play, players will have 55 minutes to complete their match. During a 
top c ut, this is extended to 75 minute s. 
4.3.2 Best-of-Three Match Resolution  
During best-of-three  match play, the first person to win two  games is the winner of the match.  
That said, there can be several situations where a clear winner cannot be decided by this rule, 
such as when time is called before either player has won two games.  The following section 
details how to resolve a match during unusual situations:  
If both bases are destroyed simultaneously , the game ends in a draw , and it does not count 
toward either player’s win total . Players must start a new game and continue playing until one of 
them wins two games or time is called.  
When time is called , the players must finish the current in-game round  (action phase and/or 
regroup phase) , then play through one last action phase. At the end of this final action phase, the 
game immediately ends, without players proceeding to the regroup phase. If, at that point, the 
game still has no clear winner, then the game ends in a draw . Consult the table below to 
determine the winner of the match.  
When time is called , if the players  were  in between games, then they do not start a new game.  
The match has ended.  Consult the table below to determine the winner of the match.  
The following table provides the proper resolution for the different situations that can occur from 
time being called : 
Type of Round  Situation  When Time is Called  Resolution  
Swiss  Both players have won the same 
number of games  The match ends in a draw, which does not count as a 
win for either player  in the tournament.  
Swiss  Player A has won more games in 
the match than Player B  Player A wins the match, and Player B receives a 
loss. 
Elimination  Both players have won the same 
number of games  When the current game ends, the player with the 
most remaining HP on their base wins the match. If  
there is a tie in remaining base HP, then the player 
who ha d the initiative when the game stopped wins 
the match.  
 
If time was called between games , players do not 
start a new game but do check who would have 
started with  initiative. The player who would have 14 
 started with initiative at the beginning of the next 
game wins the match (see 4.3 Best -of-Three 
Matches  for information on who decides who starts 
with initiative).  
Elimination  Player A has won more games in 
the match than Player B  Player A wins the match, and Player B receives a 
loss and is eliminated from the tournament.  
 
As a reminder, a player can concede at any time before the end of the game.  
4.4 Intentional Draws  (Swiss Rounds Only)  
Draws —otherwise known as ties —are a natural part of the game and can be a possible resolution 
when playing in the Swiss rounds of a tournament. Before playing any games of a match , if 
both players mutually wish to  have that match end in a draw, they may do so. This is referred to 
as an “intentional draw.” T he match immediately ends and is reported as a draw for both players.  
Intentional draws are only permitted during Swiss rounds  and can only occur  if both players 
agree  to the draw . If either player does not wish to intentionally draw, then the match must 
proceed as normal.  
Players cannot intentionally draw after setting up  the first game of a match . As soon as 
players draw their opening hands (before any mulligans) , the match must proceed normally from 
that point on.  
Players cannot offer or accept an intentional draw (or concession)  in exchange for any 
reward or incentive.  Doing so falls under Bribery and Collusion , which is covered in Part 2, 
Section 3.8 -E of the Fantasy Flight Games Master Event Document.  
As a reminder, players are permitted to concede a game  at any time before the end of that gam e.    
4.5 Number of Rounds  
The number of rounds  in a tournament  is determined by the total number of players registered 
and present at the beginning of round one. Players added to the event after the start of round one 
should not affect the number of rounds being played. For Competitive -tier events , there is a 
likelihood  that players will also play in top cut elimination rounds after all Swiss  rounds have 
concluded. The top cut consist s of the top-ranked players from Swiss  rounds progressing to an 
elimination bracket and playing down to one overall  champion. The total number of rounds 
being played during the event should be announced to all players before the start of round one 
and cannot be changed once announced.  
Number of 
Players  Rounds  Number of Players in 
Top Cut * 
3-4 2 None   
5-8 3 None  
9-16 4 4 
17-32 5 4 
33-64 6 8 15 
 65-128 7 8 
129-227 8 8 
228-409 9 8 
 *Note:  As a reminder, top cuts only occur during Competitive -tier events. See 5.6 Tiebreakers  
for information about how to rank  players  that have the same win/loss ratio at the time of the top 
cut.  
4.5 Regarding Deck Lists  
4.5.1 Deck List Review  
In a Competitive -tier event, before the start of each match of the top cut elimination rounds , 
players exchange deck lists with their opponent . Players  have three minutes to  review their 
opponent ’s deck list . 
Note: Players are not permitted to take notes during deck list review, as the review takes place 
prior to the match starting.  
4.5.2 Sideboards and Deck  Changes  
When playing a best-of-three  match, players may add/exchange cards to/from their draw deck 
with cards from their sideboard between games . Players must take care that both their deck and 
sideboard are still  of legal size  after making changes —that is, at least 50 cards in the draw deck 
and at most 10 cards in the sideboard (see 2.3.1 Constructed Formats  and 3.2 Legality ). 
Players must make their adjustments and be set up for the next game within three minutes of the 
previous game ending. When a player is done making adjustments , they must show their 
opponent that there are the same number or fewer  cards in the sideboard  as there are listed on the 
deck list.  
Note:  As long as  no game actions have been taken, the first game of a match should always  be 
started before players are permitted to utilize their sideboards. For example,  if a player earns a 
Game Loss penalty before the match begins, players are not permitted to utilize their sideboards 
going into Game 2 of the match , since Game 2 will be the first game played . 
 
5. Tournament play  
5.1 Randomizers  
Per the rules for the game, at the beginning of a tournament round, players must determine who 
starts with the initiative . To do this, a player is randomly chosen, and then that player decides 
whether to start with the initiative or give it to their opponent.  Randomly choosing a player can 
be accomplished  by a coin flip or by rolling dice. If a player uses a coin of some type, there must 
be two distinct sides to the coin. When rolling dice, the dice used must be translucent. Players 
can treat the dice as a coin, where heads is even and tails is odd. Player s can also use a high roll 
where the player who rolled the hi ghest number goes first  (rerolling in the case of a tie) .  16 
 For the randomizer result to be valid, the coin or dice must land flat on the table. A player is not 
permitted to touch the coin /dice  in any way after it has been flipped /rolled  before the 
randomization result has been agreed upon by both players. If a die lands at an angle, players 
will set another die on top of the angled die. If the stack tips over, the player s must reroll.  
5.2 Game State  
When referring to “game state ,” all aspects of the game apply . This includes, but is not limited 
to, all cards, player decks, resources, discard piles, actions, epic actions, play area, etc. It is both 
players ’ responsibility to maintain the game state and clearly communicate with their opponent 
and event leaders regarding actions being taken. Players are required to be honest regarding all 
information that is required to maintain a legal game state.  
5.3 Public Knowledge  
When playing a game of Star Wars:  Unlimited, there is information considered  to be  public 
knowledge  (also often referred to as “open information”) . This is information that is supposed to 
be known by both players and leaders, if requested. Players may not  refuse to answer questions 
regarding information that is public knowledge. If a player lies or refuses to answer a question 
regarding information that is public knowledge , a severe penalty may be issued (see Part 2, 
Section 1.2  of the Fantasy Flight Games Master Event Document for more information) .   
The following topics are considered public knowledge:  
• The number of cards in a player’s hand  
• The number of cards in a player’s deck ( draw deck and sideboard  are both included)  
• The number of resources a player has in play , and how many are exhausted  / ready  
• The amount of damage  / remaining HP  on a player’s base and units  
• Previous actions taken during the current action phase  
• The text on a card that was revealed due to an in -game effect  
• The cards in a player’s discard pile  
• Whether or not a leader has been deployed / an epic action has been used  
• A player’s deck list  (top cut only,  cannot be checked by the players themselves during a 
game)  
5.4 Private Knowledge  
Information that is private knowledge may not be revealed by a player. Players should not 
answer questions about any game state information that is considered private knowledge.  
The following topics are considered private knowledge:  
• The card s still in the deck (this includes both the draw deck and sideboard)  
• All cards that have been placed as a resource, including cards that were previously public 
knowledge  
• The cards in an opponent’s hand  
5.5 Sufficient Randomization  17 
 Decks must be sufficiently randomized at the start of every game and whenever a player is 
required to shuffle any number of cards. For a deck to be sufficiently randomized, a player must 
riffle or mash shuffle their deck no fewer than seven times. Regardless of the shuffling method 
used (riffle or mash),  the deck should be cut after the final shuffle.  
The act of “pile shuffling” is not considered a valid form of randomization but is permitted for 
count ing the number of cards in the deck. This deck counting technique may be done once at the 
start of each new game. The player choosing to do this must complete their “pile shuffle” in a 
timely manner and must be set up for the game within the time constraints set forth by this 
document.  
Once the deck has been shuffled , it must be presented to an opponent  to signify that it has been 
sufficiently randomized. The opponent may then cut or shuffle the deck. Cards and sleeves must 
not be in danger of being damaged during this process. If the opponent does not believe the 
player made a reasonable effort to randomize their deck, the opponent  should notify a Judge . If 
the opponent shuffles the deck, then the deck’s owner may cut it afterward.  
If a player has had the opportunity to see any of the card faces of the deck being shuffled, the 
deck is no longer considered sufficiently randomized and the process must be restarted.  
5.6 Tiebreakers  
The following tiebreakers are used to determine how a player ranks  at any given point  in a 
tournament  during Swiss rounds :  
1. Player ’s Tournament  Match Points  – The number of points the player has earned through 
their matches . Remember, a win equals 3 points , a draw equals 1 point , and a loss equals 0 
points . 
2. Opponents’ Match -Win Percentage (OMW)  – The number of matches the player’s 
opponents have won divided by the total number of matches possible .  
3. Player’s Tournament Game -Win Percentage  (PGW)  – The number of games the player has 
won within their matches, divided by the total number of games possible.  
4. Opponents’ Game -Win Percentage (OGW)  – The number of games the player’s opponents 
have won within their matches, divided by the total number of games possible.  
5. Random Tiebreaker  – In the extremely rare occurrence that players are still tied  after the 
above tiebreakers have been implemented, then ties will be broken using a fair and random 
process via the tournament software’s default tiebreaker.  
Please note that, for these tiebreakers, we are utilizing percentage floors . As mentioned above, a 
player’s match -win or game -win percentage is that player’s accumulated match or game points  
divided by the total number of match or game  points  possible. If this percentage is ever lower 
than 33%, it will become 33% instead.  
This percentage floor minimizes the impact that low -performing players have when determining 
other players’ tiebreakers, instead putting more value on the results of higher -performing players 
when breaking ties.  18 
 5.6.1 Calculating  Match -Win and Game -Win Percentages  
The official tournament software will handle tiebreakers  during a tournament. The 
information in this sections details how the results of these tiebreakers are determined; only use 
this information if you are not utilizing the official software , such as for Casual tournament.  
For the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th tiebreakers (and only those three), a win counts for 3 points, a loss counts 
for 0 points, and a draw counts for 1 point . When examining a player’s record, it is listed in the 
“wins -losses -draws” format. For example, if Player A won three matches, lost two matches, and 
had one draw, their record would be listed as “3 -2-1.”  
A player’s match -win percentage is equal to the  match points they’ve earned divided by the total 
number of match points possible . In the above example, Player A would have 10 match points (3 
for each win and 1 for the draw) out of a possible total of 18, so their match -win percentage 
would be around 56%.  
5.6.1. 1 Calculating Opponents’ Match -Win Percentage (OMW)  
To calculate the Opponents’ Match -Win Percentage (OMW) for a player, first calculate all of 
that player ’s opponents’ match -win percentages, then take the average of those percentages by 
adding them together and dividing them by the number of opponents.  
For example, in a two -round tournament, Player A’s two opponents , Player B and Player C,  had 
the results of 1 -1-0 and 2 -0-0 respectively.  
Player B  earned 3 match points out of a possible total of 6, so their match -win percentage is 
50%.  
Player C earned all 6 possible match points, so their match -win percentage is 100% .  
By adding Player B and Player C’s match -win percentages together, we get 150%. Divide that by 
the number of opponents (two), and the final result is 75%. Thus, Player A’s OMW is 75%.  
5.6.1. 2 Calculating Player’s Tournament Game -Win Percentage ( PGW)  
A player’s game -win percentage is calculated in the same way as their match -win percentage , 
except it measures the player’s game points instead of match points . Like with match -win 
percentage, each game the player won throughout the tournament is worth 3 points  and each loss 
is worth 0 points , and each draw is worth 1 point .  
For example, if Player A has won 8 games , lost 7 games , and had 3 draws  across their matches, 
then they would have 27 points out of a possible 54. This means their PGW  is 50%. 
5.6.1.3 Calculating Opponents’ Game -Win Percentage (OGW)  
To calculate the Opponents’ Game -Win Percentage (OGW) for a player, simply add all together 
the game -win percentages of each of that player’s opponents throughout the tournament, then 
divide the sum by the number of opponents.  
For example, if Player A’s two opponents, Player B and Player C, had PGWs of 80% and 60% 
respectively, then Player A’s OGW would be 70% (80 + 60, divided by two opponents).  
5.7 Reporting Match Results  19 
 At the end of each match, it is both players’ responsibility to ensure an accurate match result has 
been reported to the Score keeper . This is done through various means, such as reporting using 
the tournament software on your mobile device or manually filling out a match slip. At Casual -
tier events, it may even be acceptable to just tell the Scorekeeper directly.  
If a match result is reported incorrectly, the following actions should be taken:  
• If the incorrect match result is discovered before the next round begins, the match result 
should be fixed within the tournament software .  
• If the incorrect match result is discovered after the next round was paired  but before the 
round has started, the match result should be fixed within the tournament software and 
the affected matches should be paired again.  
• If the incorrect match result is discovered during a round that has already started, the 
match result should be fixed but players will complete the round against their current 
opponents.  
 
6. Deck Checks  
6.1 Marked Cards  
It is the player ’s responsibility to ensure  that their cards and/or card sleeves are not marked 
during the tournament. A card or sleeve is considered marked if it bears something that makes it 
possible to identify the card without seeing its face, including (but not limited to) scratches, 
discolora tion, and bends.  
Using marked cards can warrant a penalty . For more information, please refer to Part 2, Section 
3.4 of the Fantasy Flight Games Master Event Document.  
6.2 Judge Proxies  
A judge proxy is used during competition to represent an otherwise legal Star Wars : Unlimited  
card, often to  substitute for a card that can no longer be included in a deck without the deck 
being marked. A judge proxy may only be issued  by the Head Judge  or a Floor Judge with the 
Head Judge’s approval , and only  if one or more of the following applies  to a player ’s card:   
• The card has been accidentally damaged or excessively worn in the current tournament, 
including damaged or misprinted limited product.  
• The card has a manufacturing defect  for which no defect -free replacements exist .  
Judge proxies may not be used to replace cards that the owner has damaged intentionally or 
through other forms of negligence.  
Players are not permitted to create or use their own proxy cards. A judge proxy must be created 
by the Head Judge  who, at their discretion, will determine if the creation of the judge proxy is 
appropriate. When the Head Judge  creates a proxy,  they must  sign or initial it  and include the 
date that it was made. The proxy  is included in the player’s deck and must be marked as a proxy 
in a clear and conspicuous manner . The original card must be kept nearby during the match to be 20 
 used as a reference card. A judge proxy is valid only for the duration of the tournament in which 
it was originally issued.  
6.3 Counterfeit Cards  
Counterfeit cards (fake cards that are created by third -party companies that can resemble 
officially released cards) cannot be used  as your leader  or base  and are also not permitted  in your 
main deck or sideboard in an official tournament.  
Even if a player owns an official copy of the card, they cannot include counterfeit cards as their 
leader, base, or in  their main deck/sideboard .  
If a Judge determines that a player is knowingly playing with counterfeit cards, this is considered 
a form of cheating (see the Fantasy Flight Games Master Event Document Part 2 , Section 
3.8-H). If a player is unknowingly playing with counterfeit cards, this is considered a deck list 
error (see the Master Event Document Part 2, Section 3.3 ). 
  
7. Logistics  
7.1 Publishing Tournament Information  
Fantasy Flight Games and/or the Event Organizer  reserve the right to publish event information 
including, but not limited to, player deck lists, photographs, interviews, and other video products 
directly related to official Star Wars:  Unlimited tournaments.  
7.2 Reporting Tournament Results  
It is an Event Organizer’s  responsibility to report official  Competitive -tier tournament results to 
Fantasy Flight Games by uploading the results to Melee.gg  within three business days of the 
tournament’s completion.  
 